[117th Congress Public Law 43]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 343]]

  EXTENDING GOVERNMENT FUNDING AND DELIVERING EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE ACT

[[Page 135 STAT. 344]]

Public Law 117-43
117th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
    30, 2022, and for providing emergency assistance, and for other 
           purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 2021 -  [H.R. 5305]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Extending 
Government Funding and Delivering Emergency Assistance Act.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Extending Government Funding and 
Delivering Emergency Assistance Act''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Sec. 1. Short Title
Sec. 2. Table of Contents.
Sec. 3. References.

             DIVISION A--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

    DIVISION B--DISASTER RELIEF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

      DIVISION C--AFGHANISTAN SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

                        DIVISION D--OTHER MATTERS

Title I--Extensions, Technical Corrections, and Other Matters
Title II--Budgetary Effects

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>>  REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

 DIVISION A <<NOTE: Continuing Appropriations Act, 2022.>> --CONTINUING 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

     The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or 
other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several departments, 
agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of Government for 
fiscal year 2022, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101.  Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2021 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2021, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021

[[Page 135 STAT. 345]]

        (division A of Public Law 116-260), except section 799D, and 
        including title IV of division O of Public Law 116-260.
            (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2021 (division B of Public Law 116-260), 
        except the proviso in section 541 and sections 542 and 543.
            (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2021 
        (division C of Public Law 116-260).
            (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2021 (division D of Public Law 116-260), 
        except the last proviso under the heading ``Department of 
        Energy--Energy Programs--Science'', the last two provisos under 
        the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Title 17 
        Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program'', and the two 
        provisos under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy 
        Programs--Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
        Program''.
            (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
        Appropriations Act, 2021 (division E of Public Law 116-260), 
        except the matter under the heading ``Presidential Transition 
        Administrative Support'' in title II, the matter under the 
        heading ``General Services Administration--Expenses, 
        Presidential Transition'' in title V, the proviso and the amount 
        specified in such proviso under the heading ``District of 
        Columbia--Federal Funds--Federal Payment for Emergency Planning 
        and Security Costs in the District of Columbia'' in title IV, 
        and title IX.
            (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2021 (division F of Public Law 116-260), except section 538, and 
        including sections 101 through 103 and section 105 of title I of 
        division O of Public Law 116-260.
            (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 (division G of Public Law 116-
        260).
            (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 
        (division H of Public Law 116-260), except sections 118 and 533.
            (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2021 
        (division I of Public Law 116-260), except sections 211 and 213, 
        and including section 7 of Public Law 116-260.
            (10) The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 (division J of Public 
        Law 116-260), except sections 514, 515, and 517.
            (11) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2021 (division K of Public 
        Law 116-260), except title IX other than sections 9001 and 9002 
        and the matter preceding the first proviso and the first proviso 
        under the heading ``Consular and Border Security Programs''.
            (12) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 (division L of Public 
        Law 116-260), except sections 420 and 421.

    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for:
            (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
        fiscal year 2021 or prior years;

[[Page 135 STAT. 346]]

            (2) the increase in production rates above those sustained 
        with fiscal year 2021 funds; or
            (3) The initiation, resumption, or continuation of any 
        project, activity, operation, or organization (defined as any 
        project, subproject, activity, budget activity, program element, 
        and subprogram within a program element, and for any investment 
        items defined as a P-1 line item in a budget activity within an 
        appropriation account and an R-1 line item that includes a 
        program element and subprogram element within an appropriation 
        account) for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
        were not available during fiscal year 2021.

    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding 
for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically appropriated 
later.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2021.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any 
project or activity during the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under this Act.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2022, appropriations and 
funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act shall be 
available until whichever of the following first occurs:
            (1) The enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
        project or activity provided for in this Act.
            (2) The enactment into law of the applicable appropriations 
        Act for fiscal year 2022 without any provision for such project 
        or activity.
            (3) <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  December 3, 2021.

    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged 
to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill 
in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is 
contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without regard to the 
time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth 
in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing in this Act 
may be construed to waive any other provision of law governing the 
apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, for those programs that would otherwise have high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of appropriations at the 
beginning of fiscal year 2022 because of distributions of funding to 
States, foreign countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates 
of operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no grants 
shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act that would impinge 
on final funding prerogatives.

[[Page 135 STAT. 347]]

    Sec. 110.  This Act shall be implemented so that only the most 
limited funding action of that permitted in the Act shall be taken in 
order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) <<NOTE: Extensions.>>  For entitlements and other 
mandatory payments whose budget authority was provided in appropriations 
Acts for fiscal year 2021, and for activities under the Food and 
Nutrition Act of 2008, activities shall be continued at the rate to 
maintain program levels under current law, under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2021, to be continued through the date specified in section 106(3).

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Notwithstanding section 106, obligations 
for mandatory payments due on or about the first day of any month that 
begins after October 2021 but not later than 30 days after the date 
specified in section 106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be 
available for such payments.

    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent with the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2021, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not be used until after the department 
or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-
personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this Act that 
was previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001 of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, 
or as being for disaster relief pursuant to sections 4004(b)(6) and 
4005(f) of such concurrent resolution, respectively.
    (b) All references to sections 251(b)(2)(B), 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III), 
251(b)(2)(C), 251(b)(2)(C)(ii), 251(b)(2)(E)(ii), 251(b)(2)(E)(i)(II), 
251(b)(2)(F), and 251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)) shall be treated 
for each amount incorporated by reference in this Act in the Senate as 
references to sections 4004(b)(1), 4004(b)(1)(B)(i), 4004(b)(3), 
4004(b)(3)(B), 4004(b)(4), 4004(b)(4)(B), 4004(b)(5), 4004(b)(5)(B), 
respectively, of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and in the House of 
Representatives as references to sections 4005(a), 4005(a)(2)(A), 
4005(c), 4005(c)(2), 4005(d), 4005(d)(2), 4005(e), 4005(e)(2)(A), 
respectively, of such concurrent resolution.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  This section shall become effective 
immediately upon enactment of this Act, and shall remain in effect 
through the date in section 106(3).

[[Page 135 STAT. 348]]

    Sec. 115. <<NOTE: Rescissions. Extensions.>> (a) Rescissions or 
cancellations of discretionary budget authority that continue pursuant 
to section 101 in Treasury Appropriations Fund Symbols (TAFS)--
            (1) to which other appropriations are not provided by this 
        Act, but for which there is a current applicable TAFS that does 
        receive an appropriation in this Act; or
            (2) which are no-year TAFS and receive other appropriations 
        in this Act,

may be continued instead by reducing the rate for operations otherwise 
provided by section 101 for such current applicable TAFS, as long as 
doing so does not impinge on the final funding prerogatives of the 
Congress.
    (b) Rescissions or cancellations described in subsection (a) shall 
continue in an amount equal to the lesser of--
            (1) the amount specified for rescission or cancellation in 
        the applicable appropriations Act referenced in section 101 of 
        this Act; or
            (2) the amount of balances available, as of October 1, 2021, 
        from the funds specified for rescission or cancellation in the 
        applicable appropriations Act referenced in section 101 of this 
        Act.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline. List.>>  No later than November 22, 2021, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a comprehensive list of the rescissions or cancellations that 
will continue pursuant to section 101:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Updates.>> That the information in such comprehensive 
list shall be periodically updated to reflect any subsequent changes in 
the amount of balances available, as of October 1, 2021, from the funds 
specified for rescission or cancellation in the applicable 
appropriations Act referenced in section 101, and such updates shall be 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate upon request.

    Sec. 116.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Farm Service 
Agency--Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate 
approved applications for direct and guaranteed farm ownership loans, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are available to the 
Department of Agriculture for ``Rural Business--Cooperative Service--
Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program'' for gross obligations for 
the principal amount of direct loans as authorized by section 379E of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s) not to 
exceed $25,000,000.
    Sec. 118. (a) <<NOTE: Voucher.>>  In carrying out the Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2022, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
increase the amount of a cash-value voucher to an amount recommended by 
the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine and adjusted 
for inflation for women and children participants.

    (b) <<NOTE: Apportionment.>>  Amounts made available by section 101 
to the Department of Agriculture for ``Domestic Food Programs-Food and 
Nutrition Service-Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, 
Infants, and Children (WIC)'' shall be apportioned at the rate for 
operations necessary to accommodate the increase described in subsection 
(a).

[[Page 135 STAT. 349]]

    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding sections 102 and 104, in addition to 
amounts otherwise provided by section 101, amounts are provided to the 
Department of Defense for ``Procurement--Other Procurement, Air Force'' 
at a rate for operations of $885,000,000, for the procurement of 
equipment for the Strategic Microelectronic Supply program, and such 
amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
carry out such procurements.
    Sec. 120.  Amounts made available by section 101 to the Department 
of Defense for ``Procurement--Procurement, Defense-Wide'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary for the procurement 
of Military Global Positioning System User Equipment Increment 1 
Application Specific Integrated Circuits.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding sections 102 and 104, amounts made 
available by section 101 to the Department of Defense for ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation--Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'' may be apportioned up to the rate of operations 
necessary for the acquisition of real property by the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 122.  During the period covered by this Act, the limitation at 
section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply with 
respect to advance billing for orders for relief efforts related to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
    Sec. 123. <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>> (a) Funding provided in prior 
Acts making appropriations for energy and water development and related 
agencies for fiscal years 2019, 2020, and 2021 under the heading 
``Department of the Interior--Bureau of Reclamation--Water and Related 
Resources'' for carrying out section 4007 of Public Law 114-322 shall be 
made available, in accordance with that section and as recommended by 
the Secretary in a letter dated July 23, 2021, for the construction, 
pre-construction, or study of the North-of-the-Delta Off Stream Storage 
(Sites Reservoir Project), the Los Vaqueros Reservoir Phase 2 Expansion 
Project, the B.F. Sisk Dam Raise and Reservoir Expansion Project, and 
the Del Puerto Canyon Reservoir.

    (b) Funding provided in the Energy and Water Development and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 under the heading ``Department of the 
Interior--Bureau of Reclamation--Water and Related Resources'' for 
carrying out section 4009(a) of Public Law 114-322 shall be made 
available, in accordance with that section and as recommended by the 
Secretary in a letter dated July 23, 2021, for the North Pleasant Valley 
Desalter Facility, the Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility 
Well Expansion and Brine Minimization Project, the Los Robles Desalter 
Project, and the Regional Brackish Water Reclamation Program.
    (c) Funding provided in the Energy and Water Development and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021 under the heading ``Department of the 
Interior--Bureau of Reclamation--Water and Related Resources'' for 
carrying out section 4009(c) of Public Law 114-322 shall be made 
available, in accordance with that section and as recommended by the 
Secretary in a letter dated July 23, 2021, for the El Paso Aquifer 
Storage and Recovery Using Reclaimed Water Project, the Pure Water 
Soquel: Groundwater Replenishment and Seawater Intrusion Prevention 
Project, the North San Diego Water Reuse Coalition Project, the Pure 
Water Oceanside Project, the City of Santa Fe Reuse Pipeline Project, 
the Replenish Big Bear Project, the Central Coast Blue: Recycled Water 
Project, the

[[Page 135 STAT. 350]]

Harvest Water Program, the East County Advanced Water Purification 
Program: Phase Two, the Ventura Water Pure Program, and the San Juan 
Watershed Project.
    Sec. 124. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (a) During the period covered by 
this Act, title I of Public Law 108-361 (the Calfed Bay-Delta 
Authorization Act) (118 Stat. 1681), as amended by section 4007(k) of 
Public Law 114-322, shall be applied by substituting ``2022'' for 
``2021'' each place it appears.

    (b) During the period covered by this Act, section 9106(g)(2) of 
Public Law 111-11 (Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009) shall be 
applied by substituting ``2022'' for ``2021''.
    (c) During the period covered by this Act, section 104(c) of the 
Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 
2214(c)) shall be applied by substituting ``2022'' for ``2021''.
    (d) During the period covered by this Act, section 301 of the 
Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2241) 
shall be applied by substituting ``2022'' for ``2021''.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  125. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, 
section 506 of division D of Public Law 116-260 shall be applied by 
substituting ``$841,000,000'' for ``$291,000,000''.

    (b) Amounts provided by this Act for ``Department of Energy--Energy 
Programs--Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund'' 
may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
disruption of continuing projects or activities funded in this 
appropriation.
    (c) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  The Secretary of Energy shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate not later than 3 days after each use of the authority 
provided in subsection (b).

    Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriated to the 
President--The White House--Salaries and Expenses'' at a rate for 
operations of $60,000,000.
    Sec. 127.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``General Services Administration--Allowances and Office Staff for 
Former Presidents'' at a rate for operations of $5,000,000.
    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>>   Amounts made available by 
section 101 for ``Small Business Administration--Business Loans Program 
Account'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
accommodate increased demand for commitments for general business loans 
authorized under paragraphs (1) through (35) of section 7(a) of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), for guarantees of trust 
certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 634(g)), for commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 697), and for 
commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683(b)).

    Sec. 129. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Notwithstanding section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``District of Columbia--Federal Funds--Federal 
Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia'' at a rate for operations of $249,754,000:  
Provided, That the second proviso under such heading in title IV of 
division E of Public Law 116-260 shall be applied by substituting 
``$70,574,000'' for ``$66,743,000''.

[[Page 135 STAT. 351]]

    Sec. 130.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local funds made 
available under the heading ``District of Columbia--District of Columbia 
Funds'' for such programs and activities under the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (title IV of division E of Public Law 116-260) 
at the rate set forth in the Fiscal Year 2022 Local Budget Act of 2021 
(D.C. Act 24-173), as modified as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 131.  Section 330(e)(3) of title 11, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``in that fiscal year'' at the end of the paragraph.
    Sec. 132.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
an amount is provided to the Department of Homeland Security for ``U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services--Operations and Support'' for 
application processing, the reduction of backlogs within asylum, field, 
and service center offices, and support of the refugee program at a rate 
for operations of $250,000,000:  Provided, That such amounts shall be in 
addition to any other funds made available for such purposes, and shall 
not be construed to require any reduction of any fee described in 
section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1356(m)):  Provided further, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Reports.>> That 
prior to the obligation of such resources, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives an expenditure plan that 
identifies backlog reduction metrics and quarterly reports on the 
execution of such plan.

    Sec. 133. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> Amounts made available by section 
101 to the Department of Homeland Security under the heading ``Federal 
Emergency Management Agency--Disaster Relief Fund'' may be apportioned 
up to the rate for operations necessary to carry out response and 
recovery activities under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).

    Sec. 134. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (a) Sections 1309(a) and 1319 of 
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a) and 4026) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this Act for ``September 30, 2021''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> If this Act is enacted after September 
30, 2021, this section shall be applied as if it were in effect on 
September 30, 2021.

    Sec. 135.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
the Interior--National Park Service--National Recreation and 
Preservation'' for heritage partnership programs may be used to provide 
financial assistance to any national heritage area, national heritage 
corridor, cultural heritage corridor, national heritage partnership, 
national heritage route, national heritage canalway, and battlefields 
national historic district established as of September 1, 2021, 
notwithstanding any statutory sunset provision terminating the 
Secretary's authority to provide assistance to any such area and 
notwithstanding any limitation on amounts authorized to be appropriated 
with respect to any such area:  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That 
the Commission sunset provision in section 804(j) of division B of H.R. 
5666 (Appendix D), as amended, as enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of 
Public Law 106- 554, shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2021'':  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Extension.>> That the authority in section 295D of 
Public Law 109-338, as amended, shall continue in effect through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.

[[Page 135 STAT. 352]]

    Sec. 136. <<NOTE: Allocations.>> Notwithstanding subsection 
(c)(2)(B) of section 200303 of title 54, United States Codes, during the 
period covered by this Act amounts made available from the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund for fiscal year 2022 pursuant to subsection (a) 
of such section of such title shall be allocated by the Secretary of the 
Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate, only for the 
following agencies and accounts, for the purposes specified, and in the 
amounts specified multiplied by the percentage of fiscal year 2022 
covered by this Act:
            (1) ``Department of the Interior--Bureau of Land 
        Management--Land Acquisition'', $7,500,000, for Acquisition 
        Management;
            (2) ``Department of the Interior--United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service--Land Acquisition'', $17,000,000, for Land 
        Acquisition Management;
            (3) ``Department of the Interior--National Park Service--
        Land Acquisition and State Assistance'', $14,500,000, for 
        Acquisition Management;
            (4) ``Department of the Interior--Office of the Secretary--
        Departmental Operations'', $19,000,000, for Management Services, 
        Appraisal and Valuation Service Offices-Federal Lands;
            (5) ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--State and 
        Private Forestry'', $6,400,000, for Administrative Funds; and
            (6) ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Land 
        Acquisition'', $12,000,000, for Acquisition Management.

    Sec. 137. <<NOTE: Apportionments.>> (a) In addition to amounts 
provided by section 101, amounts are provided for ``Department of Health 
and Human Services--Indian Health Service--Indian Health Services'' at a 
rate for operations of $22,080,000, for an additional amount for costs 
of staffing and operating facilities that were opened, renovated, or 
expanded in fiscal years 2021 and 2022, and such amounts may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to staff and operate 
such facilities.

    (b) In addition to amounts provided by section 101, amounts are 
provided for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Indian Health 
Service--Indian Health Facilities'' at a rate for operations of 
$2,261,000, for an additional amount for costs of staffing and operating 
facilities that were opened, renovated, or expanded in fiscal years 2021 
and 2022, and such amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to staff and operate such facilities.
    Sec. 138.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention--Environmental Health'', there is appropriated 
$1,500,000, for an additional amount for fiscal year 2022, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022, for the Vessel Sanitation Program.
    Sec. 139. (a) <<NOTE: Time periods. Determination.>> Funds made 
available in Public Law 114-113 to the accounts of the National 
Institutes of Health that were available for obligation through fiscal 
year 2016 and were obligated for multi-year research grants shall be 
available through fiscal year 2022 for the liquidation of valid 
obligations incurred in fiscal year 2016 if the Director of the National 
Institutes of Health determines the project suffered an interruption of 
activities attributable to COVID-19.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective dates.>> Subject to paragraph (2), this 
section shall become effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

[[Page 135 STAT. 353]]

            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  If this Act is enacted after 
        September 30, 2021, this section shall be applied as if it were 
        in effect on September 30, 2021.

    Sec. 140.  <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> In addition to amounts provided 
by section 101, amounts are provided for ``Department of Health and 
Human Services--Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration--Mental Health'' at a rate for operations of $77,621,000 
for an additional amount for carrying out section 520E-3 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36c), and such amounts may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to operate and 
maintain the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline program.

    Sec. 141. <<NOTE: Reports.>> In addition to amounts otherwise 
provided by this Act, for ``Department of Health and Human Services--
Administration for Children and Families--Refugee and Entrant 
Assistance'', there is appropriated $2,500,000,000, for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 
2024, to carry out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 and 
section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Plan. Timeline.>> That not later than 
November 1, 2021, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report detailing steps taken and 
planned to be taken by the Department to phase out the use of emergency 
intake sites and a detailed plan for ending the use of emergency intake 
sites, including a timeline of major milestones and projections for 
delivered online bed capacity by facility type:  Provided further, That 
such report shall include an aligned spend plan for estimated fiscal 
year 2022 obligations by major category:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall submit monthly reports during fiscal year 2022 to the 
Committees on Appropriations on all obligations and expenditures 
incurred by the Department for carrying out such sections 462 and 235:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) and 
section 4001(b) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.

    Sec. 142. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> Amounts made available by section 
101 for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for 
Children and Families--Refugee and Entrant Assistance'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to carry out section 
462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 and section 235 of the William 
Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, 
and up to the rate for operations necessary for activities authorized by 
section 414 of the Immigration and Nationality Act and section 501 of 
the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980.

    Sec. 143. <<NOTE: Time period. Reports. Refugees.>> Not later than 
90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 90 days 
thereafter through fiscal year 2022, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate on (1) the total number of 
children that the Office of Refugee Resettlement has released to 
sponsors living in the United States, disaggregated by State, and (2) 
the number of children that the Office of Refugee Resettlement has 
released to sponsors living in the United States for whom the Office of 
Refugee Resettlement has successfully conducted safety and welfare 
checks, and provided post-release services as appropriate, for the most 
recent quarter such data are available.

[[Page 135 STAT. 354]]

    Sec. 144. <<NOTE: Reports. Public information. Web posting.>> Not 
later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, and disclose on a publicly available website, on all transfers 
made for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
or section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008 during fiscal year 
2021. <<NOTE: List. Refugees.>> This report shall include: (1) a list of 
the source of funds transferred by public law;(2) the program, project, 
or activity funds were transferred from and the corresponding amount 
that was transferred;(3) date of transfer;(4) the number of children 
referred to the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) by month for fiscal 
year 2021; and(5) the age distribution of the children referred to ORR 
by month for fiscal year 2021:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Updates. Deadline. Time period.>> That the report 
shall be updated every 30 days throughout fiscal year 2022.

    Sec. 145. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> During the period covered by this 
Act, for services furnished under the Community Services Block Grant Act 
(``CSBG Act'') with funds made available by this Act, by the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260), or by the 
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136), 
States may apply the last sentence of section 673(2) of the CSBG Act by 
substituting ``200 percent'' for ``125 percent''.

    Sec. 146. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> For purposes of annual leave 
accumulated in fiscal year 2021, the authority provided in section 2106 
of division C of Public Law 116-159 shall apply to such leave by 
substituting ``2021'' for ``2020'' in subsections (a) and (d).

    Sec. 147.  Activities authorized by part A of title IV (other than 
under section 403(c) or 418) and section 1108(b) of the Social Security 
Act shall continue through the date specified in section 106(3), in the 
manner authorized for fiscal year 2021, and out of any money in the 
Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are 
hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  148.  Section 114(f) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1011c(f)) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``September 30, 2021''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  149.  Section 458(a)(4) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087h(a)(4)) shall be applied through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act by substituting 
``2022'' for ``2021''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  150.  Notwithstanding section 101, 
section 116 of division J of Public Law 116-260 shall be applied during 
the period covered by this Act by substituting ``fifth fiscal year'' for 
``fourth fiscal year''.

    Sec. 151.  During the period covered by this Act, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may transfer up to $193,500,000 of the unobligated 
balances from amounts made available for fiscal year 2021 under the 
heading ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical Services'' in title II 
of division F of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 
(Public Law 116-94), or in section 8002 of title VIII of the American 
Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2) to the following accounts of 
the Department in the amounts specified:
            (1) ``Veterans Benefits Administration--General Operating 
        Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', up to 
        $178,000,000;

[[Page 135 STAT. 355]]

            (2) ``Departmental Administration--Board of Veterans 
        Appeals'', up to $5,800,000; and
            (3) ``Departmental Administration--Information Technology 
        Systems'', up to $9,700,000:

  Provided, That the transferred amounts shall be used, in addition to 
any other amounts available for such purposes, for personnel costs and 
other expenses to implement the interim final rule entitled 
``Presumptive Service Connection for Respiratory Conditions Due to 
Exposure to Particulate Matter'', published on August 5, 2021 (86 FR 
42724), and any revisions to such rule.
    Sec. 152. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> Amounts made available by section 
101 to United States Government-funded entities for ``Related Agency--
United States Agency for Global Media--International Broadcasting 
Operations'', ``Related Programs--The Asia Foundation'', ``Related 
Programs--United States Institute of Peace'', and ``Related Programs--
National Endowment for Democracy'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to support the evacuation of Afghan journalists and 
other Afghan employees of such entities, following consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 153. <<NOTE: Extension.>> Section 21009 of the Coronavirus Aid, 
Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136) shall continue in 
effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.

    Sec. 154.  Amounts made available by section 101 to the United 
States International Development Finance Corporation for ``Corporate 
Capital Account'' and paid to the ``Program Account'' shall be available 
for the costs of modifying loans and loan guarantees transferred to the 
Corporation pursuant to section 1463 of the BUILD Act of 2018 (division 
F of Public Law 115-254):  Provided, That such costs shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    Sec. 155. <<NOTE: Applicabilty.>> Section 1334 of the Foreign 
Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act 
for ``October 1, 2021''.

    Sec. 156. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> Notwithstanding section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``Department of Transportation--Office of the 
Secretary--Payments to Air Carriers'' at a rate for operations of 
$247,700,000, and such amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain Essential Air Service program 
operations.

    Sec. 157. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> Amounts made available by section 
101 to the Department of Housing and Urban Development in the third 
paragraph under the heading ``Public and Indian Housing--Native American 
Programs'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
accommodate demand for guaranteed notes and other obligations as 
authorized by title VI of the Native American Housing Assistance and 
Self-Determination Act of 1996.

     This division may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2022''.

 DIVISION B-- <<NOTE: Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2022.>> DISASTER RELIEF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2022, and for other purposes, namely:

[[Page 135 STAT. 356]]

                                 TITLE I

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                   Processing, Research and Marketing

                         office of the secretary

    For <<NOTE: Determination.>> an additional amount for the ``Office 
of the Secretary'', $10,000,000,000, which shall remain available until 
December 31, 2023, for necessary expenses related to losses of crops 
(including milk, on-farm stored commodities, crops prevented from 
planting in 2020 and 2021, and harvested adulterated wine grapes), 
trees, bushes, and vines, as a consequence of droughts, wildfires, 
hurricanes, floods, derechos, excessive heat, winter storms, freeze, 
including a polar vortex, smoke exposure, quality losses of crops, and 
excessive moisture occurring in calendar years 2020 and 2021 under such 
terms and conditions as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Grapes. Determination.>> That, with respect to smoke 
tainted wine grapes, the loss (including a quality loss) of such crop 
during the coverage period due to wildfire, as determined by the 
Secretary, is considered a qualified loss:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Eligibility.>> That losses due to drought shall only be 
eligible under this heading in this Act if any area within the county in 
which the loss occurs was rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having a 
D2 (Severe Drought) for eight consecutive weeks or a D3 (Extreme 
Drought) or higher level of drought intensity during the applicable 
calendar years:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That of the 
amounts provided under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall use 
$750,000,000 to provide assistance to producers of livestock, as 
determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, for losses incurred during 
calendar year 2021 due to drought or wildfires:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Payments. Determination.>> That at the election of a 
processor eligible for a loan under section 156 of the Federal 
Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7272) or a 
cooperative processor of dairy, the Secretary shall make payments for 
losses in 2021 to such processors (to be paid to producer members, as 
determined by such processors) in lieu of payments to producers and 
under the same terms and conditions as payments made to processors 
pursuant to title I of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for 
Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-20) under the heading 
``Department of Agriculture--Agricultural Programs--Processing, Research 
and Marketing--Office of the Secretary'', as last amended by section 
791(c) of title VII of division B of the Further Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Payments.>> That notwithstanding section 760.1503(j) of 
title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in the event that a 
processor described in the preceding proviso does not elect to receive 
payments under such clause, the Secretary shall make direct payments to 
producers under this heading in this Act:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts provided under this heading in this Act, not more than one 
percent of the funds provided herein may be used for administrative 
costs, including for streamlining the application process and easing the 
burden on county office employees, to carry out the matter under this 
heading in this Act:  Provided further, That, except as otherwise 
provided under this heading

[[Page 135 STAT. 357]]

in this Act, the Secretary shall impose payment limitations consistent 
with section 760.1507 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in 
effect on the date of enactment of this Act):  Provided further, That, 
in <<NOTE: Determination.>> the case of specialty crops or high value 
crops, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall impose 
payment limitations consistent with section 760.1507(a)(2) of title 7, 
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2019):  Provided 
further, That, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> with respect to the payment 
limitations described under this heading in this Act, the Secretary 
shall apply separate payment limits for each of 2020 and 2021:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That the total amount of payments 
received under this heading in this Act and applicable policies of crop 
insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) 
or the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under section 
196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 
U.S.C. 7333) (minus any premiums or fees paid for such coverages) shall 
not exceed 90 percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That the total amount of 
payments received under this heading in this Act for producers who did 
not obtain a policy or plan of insurance for an insurable commodity for 
the applicable crop year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the losses or did not file the 
required paperwork and pay the service fee by the applicable State 
filing deadline for a noninsurable commodity for the applicable crop 
year under NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall not exceed 70 
percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Determinations. Requirement. Time period.>> producers 
receiving payments under this heading in this Act, as determined by the 
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop insurance where crop 
insurance is available for the next two available crop years and 
producers receiving payments under this heading in this Act shall be 
required to purchase coverage under NAP where crop insurance is not 
available in the next two available crop years, as determined by the 
Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That not later than 120 
days after the end of fiscal year 2021, the Secretary shall submit a 
report to the Congress specifying the type, amount, and method of such 
assistance by state and territory.

                FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'' for necessary expenses for the Emergency Watershed 
Protection Program, $275,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
which shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes.

[[Page 135 STAT. 358]]

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For an additional amount for ``Scientific and Technical Research and 
Services'' for necessary expenses to carry out investigations of 
building failures pursuant to the National Construction Safety Team Act 
of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7301), $22,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2023.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
hurricanes and of wildfires in calendar years 2020 and 2021, 
$92,834,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, as follows:
            (1) $4,709,000 for repair and replacement of observing 
        assets, real property, and equipment;
            (2) $3,425,000 for marine debris assessment and removal;
            (3) $4,700,000 for mapping, charting, and geodesy services;
            (4) $35,000,000 to improve: (A) hurricane intensity and 
        track forecasting, including through deployment of unmanned 
        ocean observing platforms and enhanced data assimilation; and(B) 
        precipitation and flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation 
        capabilities;
            (5) $20,000,000 to improve wildfire research, prediction, 
        detection, forecasting, monitoring, data management, and 
        communication and engagement; and
            (6) $25,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as authorized under 
        section 906(c) of division O of Public Law 114-113:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>> That the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

     For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Acquisition and 
Construction'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
hurricanes and of wildfires in calendar years 2020 and 2021, 
$52,205,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, as follows:
            (1) $2,205,000 for repair and replacement of observing 
        assets, real property, and equipment; and
            (2) $50,000,000 for improvements to operational and research 
        weather and climate supercomputing and dissemination 
        infrastructure, observing assets, and satellites, along with 
        associated ground systems, used for hurricane intensity and 
        track prediction; precipitation and flood prediction, 
        forecasting, and mitigation; and wildfire research, prediction, 
        detection, forecasting, and monitoring:

[[Page 135 STAT. 359]]

  Provided, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>>  That the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      fisheries disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Fisheries Disaster Assistance'' for 
necessary expenses associated with the mitigation of fishery disasters, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
funds shall be used for mitigating the effects of commercial fishery 
failures and fishery resource disasters declared by the Secretary of 
Commerce, including those declared by the Secretary to be a direct 
result of hurricanes in calendar years 2020 and 2021.

                                 SCIENCE

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

        construction and environmental compliance and restoration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Construction and Environmental 
Compliance and Restoration'' for repair at National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration facilities damaged by Hurricanes Zeta and Ida, 
$321,400,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That up to 
15 percent of such amount may be transferred to ``Exploration'' for 
necessary expenses related to flight hardware, tooling, production and 
schedule delays caused by Hurricane Ida:  Provided further, That except 
as provided in the preceding proviso, the amounts appropriated under 
this heading in this Act shall not be available for transfer under any 
transfer authority provided for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in an appropriation Act for fiscal year 2022.

                       National Science Foundation

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For an additional amount for ``Major Research Equipment and 
Facilities Construction'' for necessary expenses related to the National 
Science Foundation Regional Class Research Vessel construction impacted 
by Hurricane Ida, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Legal Services Corporation

                payment to the legal services corporation

    For an additional amount for ``Payment to the Legal Services 
Corporation'' to carry out the purposes of the Legal Services 
Corporation Act by providing for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of hurricanes, wildfires, other extreme weather, and 
earthquakes that occurred during calendar years 2020 and 2021,

[[Page 135 STAT. 360]]

$40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2021 and 2022, respectively, and except that sections 501 and 503 of 
Public Law 104-134 (referenced by Public Law 105-119) shall not apply to 
the amount made available under this heading:  Provided further, That, 
for the purposes of this Act, the Legal Services Corporation shall be 
considered an agency of the United States.

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$565,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of severe storms, 
straight-line winds, flooding, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, and 
hurricanes occurring in calendar years 2020 and 2021.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $330,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Winter Storm Uri 
occurring in calendar year 2021.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1301.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
provided by this title shall only be for the purposes specified, and 
shall not be subject to any transfer authority provided by law.

                                TITLE IV

                        CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                             investigations

    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'' for necessary 
expenses related to the completion, or initiation and completion, of 
flood and storm damage reduction, including shore protection, studies 
that are currently authorized or that are authorized after

[[Page 135 STAT. 361]]

the date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk from future floods and 
hurricanes, at full Federal expense, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
in this Act shall be for high-priority studies of projects in States 
with a major disaster declared due to Hurricane Ida pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in fiscal year 2021:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, including 
new studies selected to be initiated using funds provided under this 
heading in this Act, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                              construction

    For <<NOTE: Determination.>>  an additional amount for 
``Construction'' for necessary expenses, $3,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to construct flood and storm damage reduction, 
including shore protection, projects that are currently authorized or 
that are authorized after the date of enactment of this Act, and flood 
and storm damage reduction, including shore protection, projects that 
have signed Chief's Reports as of the date of enactment of this Act or 
that are studied using funds provided under the heading 
``Investigations'' if the Secretary determines such projects to be 
technically feasible, economically justified, and environmentally 
acceptable:  Provided, That of such amount, $1,500,000,000 shall be 
available for such projects in States with a major disaster declared due 
to Hurricane Ida pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in fiscal year 2021:  
Provided further, That the provisions of section 902 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1986 shall not apply to the construction of 
projects, including initial construction or periodic nourishment, 
completed using funding under this heading in this Act:  Provided 
further, That the completion of ongoing construction projects receiving 
funding provided under this heading in this Act shall be at full Federal 
expense with respect to such funds:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time 
period.>> That for any projects using funding provided under this 
heading in this Act, the non-Federal cash contribution for projects 
other than ongoing construction projects shall be financed in accordance 
with the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law 99-662 over a period 
of 30 years from the date of completion of the project or separable 
element:  Provided further, That up to $65,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act shall be used for continuing 
authorities projects to reduce the risk of flooding and storm damage:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That any projects using funding 
appropriated under this heading in this Act shall be initiated only 
after non-Federal interests have entered into binding agreements with 
the Secretary requiring, where applicable, the non-Federal interests to 
pay 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and 
rehabilitation costs of the project and to hold and save the United 
States free from damages due to the construction or operation and 
maintenance of the project, except for damages due to the fault or 
negligence of the United States or its contractors:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available under this heading in this Act, such 
sums as are

[[Page 135 STAT. 362]]

necessary to cover the Federal share of construction costs for 
facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities Program shall 
be derived from the general fund of the Treasury:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> the Assistant Secretary of the Army 
for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' 
for necessary expenses to address emergency situations at Corps of 
Engineers projects, and to construct, and rehabilitate and repair 
damages to Corps of Engineers projects, caused by natural disasters, 
$868,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act, such sums as are 
necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible operation and 
maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and for inland 
harbors shall be derived from the general fund of the Treasury:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this heading 
in this Act, $500,000,000 shall be available to construct flood and 
storm damage reduction projects that are currently authorized or that 
are authorized after the date of enactment of this Act in States with a 
major disaster declared due to Hurricane Ida pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
seq.) in fiscal year 2021:  Provided further, That the provisions of 
section 902 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 shall not 
apply to the construction of projects, including initial construction or 
periodic nourishment, completed using funding under this heading in this 
Act:  Provided further, That to the extent that ongoing construction 
projects are constructed using funding provided under this heading in 
this Act, such construction shall be at full Federal expense:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>> That for any projects using funding 
provided under this heading in this Act, the non-Federal cash 
contribution for projects other than ongoing construction projects shall 
be financed in accordance with the provisions of section 103(k) of 
Public Law 99-662 over a period of 30 years from the date of completion 
of the project or separable element:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That any projects using funding 
appropriated under this heading in this Act shall be initiated only 
after non-Federal interests have entered into binding agreements with 
the Secretary requiring, where applicable, the non-Federal interests to 
pay 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and 
rehabilitation costs of the project and to hold and save the United 
States free from damages due to the construction or operation and 
maintenance of the project, except for damages due to the fault or 
negligence of the United States or its contractors:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 135 STAT. 363]]

                        operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' for 
necessary expenses to dredge Federal navigation projects in response to, 
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers Federal projects caused by, 
natural disasters, $887,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible 
operation and maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and 
for inland harbors shall be derived from the general fund of the 
Treasury:  Provided, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report 
directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to prepare for flood, hurricane 
and other natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, 
and other activities in response to such disasters, as authorized by 
law, $826,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
funding utilized for authorized shore protection projects shall restore 
such projects to the full project profile at full Federal expense:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report 
directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                                expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Expenses'' for necessary expenses to 
administer and oversee the obligation and expenditure of amounts 
provided in this Act for the Corps of Engineers, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a 
monthly report directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and 
obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For an additional amount for ``Central Utah Project Completion 
Account'', $10,000,000 to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Commission, to remain available until 
expended, for expenses necessary in carrying out fire remediation 
activities for wildfires.

[[Page 135 STAT. 364]]

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For <<NOTE: Determination.>>  an additional amount for ``Water and 
Related Resources'', $210,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $200,000,000 shall be available for 
activities to address drought, as determined by the Secretary of the 
Interior:  Provided further, That of the amount made available under 
this heading in this Act, $10,000,000 shall be for fire remediation and 
suppression emergency assistance related to wildfires:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Allocation.>> That the Commissioner shall 
provide a monthly report directly to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and 
obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             Energy Programs

                       strategic petroleum reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Strategic Petroleum Reserve'', 
$43,300,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to damages caused by natural disasters.

                                 TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                      Small Business Administration

                     disaster loans program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Loans Program Account'' for 
the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, $1,189,100,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That up to $620,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
``Salaries and Expenses'' for administrative expenses to carry out the 
disaster loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business 
Act.

                                TITLE VI

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                           federal assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Assistance'', $50,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2022, for emergency management 
performance grants under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford

[[Page 135 STAT. 365]]

Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121), the 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701), section 762 
of title 6, United States Code, and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.).

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1601. <<NOTE: Loan cancellations. 42 USC 5184 note.>>  (a) 
Repayments of the remaining balances of all loans, as of September 30, 
2021, by the Federal Emergency Management Agency under section 417 of 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5184) are hereby cancelled.

    (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department of 
Homeland Security for ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--Disaster 
Relief Fund'', such sums as are necessary may be transferred to the 
Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program Account for carrying out 
subsection (a).
    (c) Each amount repurposed or transferred by this section that was 
previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement or as 
being for disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 or a concurrent resolution on the budget is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 4001(a)(1) and section 4001(b), or as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 4004(b)(6) and section 4005(f), respectively, of S. 
Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2022.

                                TITLE VII

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For an additional amount for ``Management of Lands and Resources'', 
$1,192,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 
wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $58,227,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes 
and other natural disasters.

                          National Park Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $229,472,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes 
and other natural disasters.

[[Page 135 STAT. 366]]

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'', $26,284,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 
2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

              offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``Offshore Safety and Environmental 
Enforcement'', $223,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 
2020 and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes and natural disasters.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $452,000, to remain 
available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes 
and other natural disasters.

                        DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS

                        WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to wildfires:  Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading in this Act, $55,000,000 shall be for hazardous fuels management 
activities:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading in this Act, $45,000,000, shall be for burned area recovery.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        forest service operations

    For an additional amount for ``Forest Service Operations'', 
$105,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 
wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters.

[[Page 135 STAT. 367]]

                      forest and rangeland research

    For an additional amount for ``Forest and Rangeland Research'', 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 
wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters for the forest 
inventory and analysis program.

                       state and private forestry

    For an additional amount for ``State and Private Forestry'', 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 2020, and 2021 
wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'', 
$710,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
amounts provided under this heading in this Act, $535,000,000 shall be 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 
2019, 2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters, 
including no less than $175,000,000 for high priority post-wildfire 
restoration for watershed protection, critical habitat, and burned area 
recovery:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading in this Act, $175,000,000 shall be for hazardous fuels 
mitigation.

                   capital improvement and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance'', $470,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 2019, 
2020, and 2021 wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1701. <<NOTE: Determinations. Applicability. Wages. Waiver. 5 
USC 5547 note.>> (a)(1) If services performed by the designated 
employees under paragraph (2) of this subsection at the Department of 
the Interior or the Department of Agriculture during 2021 are determined 
by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as 
applicable, to be primarily related to emergency wildland fire 
suppression activities, any premium pay for such services shall be 
disregarded in calculating the aggregate of such employee's basic pay 
and premium pay for purposes of a limitation under section 5547(a) of 
title 5, United States Code, or under any other provision of law, 
whether such employee's pay is paid on a biweekly or calendar year 
basis. Any services during 2021 that generate payments payable in 2022 
shall be disregarded in applying this subsection.

    (2) The premium pay waiver under paragraph (1) of this subsection 
shall apply to individuals serving as wildland firefighters and as fire 
management response officials, including regional fire directors, deputy 
regional fire directors, agency officials who directly oversee fire 
operations, and fire management officers, and individuals serving on 
incident management teams (IMTs), at the National

[[Page 135 STAT. 368]]

Interagency Fire Center (NIFC), at Geographic Area Coordinating Centers 
(GACCs), and at Operations centers.
    (3) <<NOTE: Reports. Employee positions.>>  The Departments of the 
Interior and Agriculture shall provide a report to Congress detailing 
the number of positions, including by occupation, grade, and the 
aggregate pay by type of pay for each individual who receives pay 
authorized under subsection (a)(1).

    (b) Any overtime pay for services described in subsection (a) that 
is payable under an authority outside of title 5, United States Code, 
shall be disregarded in calculating any annual limit on the amount of 
overtime pay payable in 2021.
    (c) Any pay that is disregarded under either subsection (a) or (b) 
shall be disregarded in calculating such employee's aggregate pay for 
purposes of applying the limitation in section 5307 of title 5, United 
States Code, during 2021.
    (d)(1) Pay that is disregarded under subsection (a) or (b) shall not 
cause the aggregate of the employee's basic pay and premium pay for the 
applicable calendar year to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for a 
position at level II of the Executive Schedule under section 5313 of 
title 5, United States Code, as in effect at the end of such calendar 
year.
    (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of applying this subsection 
to an employee who would otherwise be subject to the premium pay limits 
established under section 5547 of title 5, United States Code, ``premium 
pay'' means the premium pay paid under the provisions of law cited in 
section 5547(a).

    (3) For purposes of applying this subsection to an employee under a 
premium pay limit established under an authority other than section 5547 
of title 5, United States Code, the agency responsible for administering 
such limit shall determine what payments are considered premium pay.
    (4) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For the purpose of applying this 
subsection, ``basic pay'' includes any applicable locality-based 
comparability payment under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, 
any applicable special rate supplement under section 5305 of such title, 
or any equivalent payment under a similar provision of law.

    (e) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  This section shall take effect as if 
enacted on January 1, 2021.

    (f) If application of this section results in the payment of 
additional premium pay to a covered employee of a type that is normally 
creditable as basic pay for retirement or any other purpose, that 
additional pay shall not--
            (1) be considered to be basic pay of the covered employee 
        for any purpose; or
            (2) be used in computing a lump-sum payment to the covered 
        employee for accumulated and accrued annual leave under section 
        5551 or section 5552 of title 5, United States Code, or other 
        similar provision of law.

    (g) <<NOTE: Deadline. Effective date.>>  Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
and Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry, the House of 
Representatives Committee on Agriculture, the Senate Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources, the House of Representatives Committee on Natural 
Resources, Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, and the House of Representatives Committee

[[Page 135 STAT. 369]]

on Oversight and Reform, a framework to modernize the wildland 
firefighting workforce beginning in fiscal year 2022.

                               TITLE VIII

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                        facilities and equipment

    For an additional amount for ``Facilities and Equipment'', 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Ida.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                        emergency relief program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Relief Program'' as 
authorized under section 125 of title 23, United States Code, 
$2,600,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community Development Fund'', 
$5,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses for activities authorized under title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to 
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infrastructure and 
housing, economic revitalization, and mitigation, in the most impacted 
and distressed areas resulting from a major disaster that occurred in 
2020 or 2021 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided, That 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act shall be awarded 
directly to the State, unit of general local government, or Indian tribe 
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) at the discretion of the 
Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Allocation.>> That the Secretary 
shall allocate, using the best available data, an amount equal to the 
total estimate for unmet needs for qualifying disasters under this 
heading in this Act:  Provided further, That any final allocation for 
the total estimate for unmet need made available under the preceding 
proviso shall include an additional amount of 15 percent of such 
estimate for additional mitigation:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>> That of the amounts made available under 
this heading in this Act, no less than $1,610,000,000 shall be allocated 
for major declared disasters that occurred in 2020 within 30 days of the 
date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall not prohibit the use of amounts made available under this heading 
in this Act for non-Federal share as authorized by section 105(a)(9) of 
the Housing and Community

[[Page 135 STAT. 370]]

Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Grants.>> of the amounts made available under this heading 
in this Act, grantees may establish grant programs to assist small 
businesses for working capital purposes to aid in recovery:  Provided 
further, That as a condition of drawing funds for any activity other 
than general administration, the Secretary shall certify in advance that 
such grantee has in place proficient financial controls and procurement 
processes and has established adequate procedures to prevent any 
duplication of benefits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), 
to ensure timely expenditure of funds, to maintain comprehensive 
websites regarding all disaster recovery activities assisted with 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act, and to detect and 
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:  Provided further, That with 
respect to any such duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall act in 
accordance with section 1210 of Public Law 115-254 (132 Stat. 3442) and 
section 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Requirement. Public information. Web 
posting. Records. Contracts. Determination.>> That the Secretary shall 
require grantees to maintain on a public website information containing 
common reporting criteria established by the Department that permits 
individuals and entities awaiting assistance and the general public to 
see how all grant funds are used, including copies of all relevant 
procurement documents, including grantee administrative contracts and 
details of ongoing procurement processes, as determined by the 
Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Plan. Criteria.>> That prior to 
the obligation of funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary 
for approval detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria 
for eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic 
revitalization, and mitigation in the most impacted and distressed 
areas:  Provided further, That such funds may not be used for activities 
reimbursable by, or for which funds are made available by, the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers:  Provided 
further, That funds allocated under this heading in this Act shall not 
be considered relevant to the non-disaster formula allocations made 
pursuant to section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306):  Provided further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 5322 
note.>> That a State, unit of general local government, or Indian tribe 
may use up to 5 percent of its allocation for administrative costs 
related to a major disaster under this heading in this Act and for the 
same purposes in prior and future Acts and such amounts shall be 
available for any eligible administrative costs without regard to a 
particular disaster:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Requirement.>> That in administering the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act, the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, 
any provision of any statute or regulation that the Secretary 
administers in connection with the obligation by the Secretary or the 
use by the recipient of these funds (except for requirements related to 
fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), 
if the Secretary finds that good cause exists for the waiver or 
alternative requirement and such waiver or alternative requirement would 
not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, recipients of funds provided 
under this heading in this Act that use such funds

[[Page 135 STAT. 371]]

to supplement Federal assistance provided under section 402, 403, 404, 
406, 407, 408(c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without 
review or public comment, any environmental review, approval, or permit 
performed by a Federal agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the 
responsibilities of the recipient with respect to such environmental 
review, approval or permit:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
section 104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
(42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the Secretary or a State may, upon receipt of a 
request for release of funds and certification, immediately approve the 
release of funds for an activity or project assisted under this heading 
in this Act if the recipient has adopted an environmental review, 
approval or permit under the preceding proviso or the activity or 
project is categorically excluded from review under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Notice. Federal Register, publication. Web 
posting. Waiver. Requirement. Deadline.>> the Secretary shall publish 
via notice in the Federal Register or on the website of the Department 
any waiver, or alternative requirement, to any statute or regulation 
that the Secretary administers pursuant to title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days before the 
effective date of such waiver or alternative requirement:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 5301 note.>> That the Secretary is authorized to 
approve the use of amounts made available under this heading in this Act 
or a prior or future Act for activities authorized under title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) 
related to unmet recovery needs in the most impacted and distressed 
areas resulting from a major disaster in this Act or in a prior or 
future Act to be used interchangeably and without limitation for the 
same activities in the most impacted and distressed areas resulting from 
other major disasters assisted under this Act or a prior or future Act 
when such areas overlap and when the use of the funds will address unmet 
recovery needs of both disasters:  Provided further, 
That, <<NOTE: Plans.>> until the Secretary publishes a Federal Register 
Notice establishing the requirements for the previous proviso, grantees 
that received grants under the same heading for 2017, 2018 or 2019 
disasters may submit for approval revised plans for the use of funds 
related to those major disasters to expand the eligible beneficiaries of 
existing programs contained in such previously approved plans to include 
those impacted by disasters in 2020 or 2021:  Provided further, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading in this Act, up to 
$7,000,000 shall be made available for capacity building and technical 
assistance, including assistance on contracting and procurement, to 
support States, units of general local government, or Indian tribes, and 
subrecipients that receive allocations for disaster recovery pursuant to 
the authority under this heading in this Act and allocations for 
disaster recovery in any prior or future Acts:  Provided further, That 
of the amounts made available under this heading in this Act, up to 
$5,500,000 shall be transferred to ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development--Program Office Salaries and Expenses--Community Planning 
and Development'' for necessary costs, including information technology 
costs, of administering and overseeing the obligation and expenditure of 
amounts made available under the heading ``Community Development Fund'' 
in this Act or any prior or future Act that makes amounts available for 
purposes related to major disasters under such heading.

[[Page 135 STAT. 372]]

                                TITLE IX

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 1901.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act 
is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 1902.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 1903.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts 
shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to 
such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2022.
    Sec. 1904.  Each amount provided by this division is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) and section 4001(b) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.
     This division may be cited as the ``Disaster Relief Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2022''.

   DIVISION C-- <<NOTE: Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2022.>> AFGHANISTAN SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2022

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2022, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $50,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2022, for investigative 
activities associated with Afghan resettlement operations.

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid'', $2,200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023, for support of Operation Allies Welcome by the Department of 
Defense.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2201. <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than 30 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter through fiscal 
year 2022,

[[Page 135 STAT. 373]]

the Secretary of Defense shall provide a written report to the 
congressional defense committees describing the execution of funds 
provided in this title, including the amounts obligated and expended, in 
total and since the previous report; the nature of the costs incurred or 
services provided by such funds; and any reimbursements or funds 
transferred by another Federal agency to the Department of Defense which 
relates to the purpose of the funds provided by this title.

    Sec. 2202.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
provided by this title shall only be for the purposes specified, and 
shall not be subject to any transfer authority provided by law.
    Sec. 2203. <<NOTE: Reviews.>> The Inspector General of the 
Department of Defense shall carry out reviews of the activities of the 
Department of Defense to transport and care for Afghans, including but 
not limited to, the humane treatment and living conditions of Afghans at 
any Department of Defense facility; the use of funds by the Department 
of Defense to support such persons, including the monitoring of 
potential waste, fraud, or abuse of such funds; and any related issues 
that the Inspector General may direct:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Updates. Reports.>> That the Inspector General shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees periodic updates on such 
oversight efforts and a written report to such committees not later than 
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 2204. Title IX of division C of Public Law 116-260 is 
amended <<NOTE: 134 Stat. 1341.>>  under the heading ``Afghanistan 
Security Forces Fund'' by inserting the following before the penultimate 
proviso: ``Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That the Secretary of 
Defense may obligate and expend funds made available under this heading 
for costs associated with the termination of contracts previously funded 
with amounts provided under this heading in prior Acts, and to pay valid 
invoices in satisfaction of liabilities under such contracts for which 
the applicable prior appropriation cannot be identified:''.

    Sec. 2205. <<NOTE: Consultation. Reports.>> Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Service Secretaries and the Commander of United 
States Central Command, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report regarding the disposition of United States property, 
equipment, and supplies, including property, equipment, and supplies 
provided to the Afghanistan National Security Forces, which were 
destroyed, taken out of Afghanistan, or remain in Afghanistan in 
connection with the United States military withdrawal:  Provided, That 
such report shall include information on the future plans of the 
Department of Defense regarding any such items.

                                TITLE III

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 cdc-wide activities and program support

    For an additional amount for ``CDC-Wide Activities and Program 
Support'', $21,500,000, for support of Operation Allies Welcome, to 
remain available until September 30, 2022, for medical support, 
screening, and other related public health activities related to Afghan 
arrivals and refugees.

[[Page 135 STAT. 374]]

                Administration for Children and Families

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance'', 
$1,680,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for 
support of Operation Allies Welcome for carrying out refugee and entrant 
assistance activities in support of citizens or nationals of Afghanistan 
paroled into the United States under section 212(d)(5) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act and citizens or nationals of Afghanistan 
for whom such refugee and entrant assistance activities are authorized:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading in this Act may 
be used for grants or contracts with qualified nonprofit organizations 
to provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services, including 
wrap-around services during temporary housing and after resettlement, 
housing assistance, medical assistance, legal assistance, and case 
management assistance:  Provided further, That the Director of the 
Office of Refugee Resettlement, in carrying out section 412(c)(1)(A) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act with amounts made available under 
this heading in this Act, may allocate such amounts among the States in 
a manner that accounts for the most current data available.

                 children and families services programs

    For an additional amount for ``Children and Families Services 
Programs'', $7,773,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, 
for support of Operation Allies Welcome for necessary administrative 
expenses to carry out refugee and entrant assistance activities in 
support of citizens or nationals of Afghanistan.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2301. <<NOTE: Deadline. Strategy.>> (a) Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall jointly submit a strategy on Afghan evacuee resettlement 
to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership describing 
agency roles and responsibilities, vetting, immigration status of each 
Afghan, and anticipated costs associated with implementing such 
strategy.

    (b) Definition of Afghan Evacuee.--In this section, the term 
``Afghan evacuee'' means a person whose evacuation from Afghanistan to 
the United States, or a location overseas controlled by the United 
States, was facilitated by the United States as part of Operation Allies 
Refuge.

                                TITLE IV

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

     For an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service'', $276,900,000, to remain available until

[[Page 135 STAT. 375]]

expended, for support for Operation Allies Welcome and related efforts 
by the Department of State, including additional relocations of 
individuals at risk as a result of the situation in Afghanistan and 
related expenses, and to reimburse the account under this heading in 
prior acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs for obligations previously incurred.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$400,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address 
humanitarian needs in Afghanistan and the region impacted by the 
situation in Afghanistan.

                           Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$415,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address 
humanitarian needs in, and to assist refugees from, Afghanistan.

      united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $1,076,100,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding section 2(c)(2) of the Migration and Refugee 
Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)(2)), of which $976,100,000 is 
for support for Operation Allies Welcome and related efforts by the 
Department of State, including additional relocations of individuals at 
risk as a result of the situation in Afghanistan and related expenses, 
and $100,000,000 is to respond to other unexpected and urgent 
humanitarian emergencies.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2401. <<NOTE: Time period. Contracts.>> During fiscal years 
2022 and 2023, notwithstanding any applicable restrictions on the 
ability of the Department of State and the United States Agency for 
International Development to enter into personal services contracts, 
including section 704 of the Financial Services and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (division E of Public Law 116-260) as continued 
by section 101 of division A of this Act (and any successor provision in 
a subsequently enacted appropriations Act), the authorities of section 
2(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 
2669(c)), section 636(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2396(a)(3)), and section 5(a)(6) of the Migration and Refugee 
Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2605(a)(6)) may be exercised, without 
regard to the geographic limitations referenced therein, particularly to 
enter into, extend, and maintain contracts with individuals who have 
served as locally employed staff of the United States mission in 
Afghanistan.

[[Page 135 STAT. 376]]

    Sec. 2402. <<NOTE: Consultation. Reports.>> The Secretary of State, 
in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, a report on the proposed uses of funds appropriated by this 
title under the headings ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular 
Service'' and ``United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance 
Fund'', by program, project, and activity, for which the obligation of 
funds is anticipated:  Provided, <<NOTE: Updates.>> That such report 
shall be updated (including any changes in proposed uses from the 
initial plan) and submitted to the Committees on Appropriations every 45 
days until September 30, 2023.

    Sec. 2403.  <<NOTE: Reports. Consultation.>> Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of 
other relevant Federal agencies, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report on the status of the Priority 2 (P-2) 
designation granting United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) 
access for certain at risk Afghan nationals and their eligible family 
members that was announced by the Department of State on August 2, 2021: 
 Provided, That such report shall include the approximate number of 
Afghan nationals and their eligible family members who have been 
referred to the program, the number of Afghan nationals who have 
contacted a Resettlement Support Center to begin processing of their P-2 
referral, the estimated time for processing such applications, an 
assessment of the obstacles facing P-2 eligible individuals seeking to 
leave Afghanistan, and a plan for augmenting personnel needed for 
refugee processing or humanitarian parole:  Provided further, That such 
report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied 
by a classified annex.

    Sec. 2404. <<NOTE: Taliban.>> None of the funds appropriated in this 
title and made available for assistance for Afghanistan may be made 
available for direct assistance to the Taliban.

                                 TITLE V

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 2501.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there 
is appropriated for ``U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services--
Immigration Examinations Fee Account'', $193,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for necessary expenses in support of Operation 
Allies Welcome, to be deposited and used as provided in section 286(n) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(n)):  Provided, 
That such amounts shall be in addition to any other amounts made 
available for such purposes and shall not be construed to require any 
reduction of any fee described in section 286(m) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)):  Provided further, That amounts 
provided in this section shall only be for the purposes specified, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law are not available for non-
expenditure transfer or reprogramming:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Expenditure plan. Updates. Data.>> That 
within 15 days of the date of enactment of this Act, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives an expenditure plan for the funds provided 
under this paragraph, and every 30 days thereafter shall provide updated 
execution data

[[Page 135 STAT. 377]]

to such Committees for such funds:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  That the reporting requirement in 
the previous proviso shall end on September 30, 2026.

    Sec. 2502. <<NOTE: Eligibility. 8 USC 1101 note.>> (a) In General.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a citizen or national of 
Afghanistan (or a person with no nationality who last habitually resided 
in Afghanistan) shall be eligible for the benefits described in 
subsections (b) and (c) if--
            (1) such individual completed security and law enforcement 
        background checks to the satisfaction of the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security and was subsequently--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  paroled into the United 
                States between July 31, 2021, and September 30, 2022; or
                    (B) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  paroled into the 
                United States after September 30, 2022, and--
                          (i) is the spouse or child (as such term is 
                      defined under section 101(b) of the Immigration 
                      and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(b)) of an 
                      individual described in subparagraph (A); or
                          (ii) is the parent or legal guardian of an 
                      individual described in subparagraph (A) who is 
                      determined to be an unaccompanied child under 6 
                      U.S.C. 279(g)(2); and
            (2) such individual's parole has not been terminated by the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security.

    (b) Benefits.--An individual described in subsection (a) shall be 
eligible for--
            (1) <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> resettlement assistance, 
        entitlement programs, and other benefits available to refugees 
        admitted under section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1157) until March 31, 2023, or the term of parole 
        granted under subsection (a), whichever is later;
            (2) services described under section 412(d)(2) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(d)(2)), subject 
        to subparagraph (B) of such section, if such individual is an 
        unaccompanied alien child as defined under 6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2); 
        and
            (3) a driver's license or identification card under section 
        202 of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (division B of Public Law 109-13; 
        49 U.S.C. 30301 note), notwithstanding subsection (c)(2)(B) of 
        such Act.

    (c) Expeditious Adjudication of Asylum Applications.--With respect 
to an application for asylum under section 208 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158) filed by an individual described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  conduct the initial interview on 
        the asylum application not later than 45 days after the date on 
        which the application is filed; and
            (2) in the absence of exceptional circumstances, issue a 
        final administrative adjudication on the asylum application 
        within 150 days after the date the application is filed.

    (d) Clarification.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
nothing in this act shall be interpreted to--
            (1) preclude an individual described in subsection (a), from 
        applying for or receiving any immigration benefits to which such 
        individual is otherwise eligible; or

[[Page 135 STAT. 378]]

            (2) entitle a person described in subsection (a) to lawful 
        permanent resident status.

    (e) <<NOTE: Time period. Consultation.>>  Report.--Not later than 
120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 3 months 
thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall submit a report 
to Congress detailing the number of individuals described in subsection 
(a); the number of individuals receiving benefits in subsection (b), 
including their eligibility for benefits as refugees notwithstanding 
this Act; and any other information deemed relevant by the Secretary.

                          reporting requirement

    Sec. 2503. <<NOTE: Coordination. Time period. Reports.>> (a) In 
General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and quarterly thereafter through September 30, 2023, the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, in coordination with the head of any other 
applicable Federal agency, shall submit to Congress a report that 
includes the elements described in subsection (b).

    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Summary.>>  A summary of the status of Afghan 
        evacuees, including--
                    (A) the number of the Afghan evacuees present in the 
                United States, located at overseas bases of the United 
                States Armed Forces, or located in third countries who 
                are not located at such a base including--
                          (i) the number who are U.S. lawful permanent 
                      residents;
                          (ii) the number who are Special Immigrant Visa 
                      holders;
                          (iii) the number who are Special Immigrant 
                      Visa applicants;
                          (iv) the number who are in possession of a 
                      valid nonimmigrant visa to enter the United 
                      States;
                          (v) the number who are employees of a U.S. 
                      Government agency;
                          (vi) the number who are employees of a U.S. 
                      funded partner organization, media, or non-profit;
                          (vii) the number of Priority 1 refugee 
                      referrals;
                          (viii) the number of Priority 2 refugee 
                      referrals;
                          (ix) the number who have been relocated from 
                      the United States to a third country, and the 
                      country to which they were relocated; and
                          (x) the number who do not fall into any of the 
                      above categories;
                    (B) the number of Afghan evacuees at overseas bases 
                or other official staging areas who have been flagged as 
                potential security concerns or risks or included on the 
                United States no-fly list and who were therefore denied 
                clearance to enter the United States; and
                    (C) the number of the Afghan evacuees who have been 
                paroled into the United States--
                          (i) the number whose parole was terminated; 
                      and
                          (ii) the number whose parole has been 
                      extended.

[[Page 135 STAT. 379]]

            (2) The number of Afghan evacuees who have been interviewed 
        by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in connection with 
        an application or petition for immigration benefits, including--
                    (A) the number of such interviews conducted since 
                the United States withdrawal;
                    (B) the rate at which individuals were granted or 
                refused the benefits that formed the basis for such 
                interviews;
                    (C) the number of individuals who did not appear at 
                a scheduled interview; and
                    (D) a description of the procedures for screening 
                for and detecting child marriage, human trafficking, 
                gender-based violence, and marriages entered into or 
                relationships as fiancee or fiance claimed for the sole 
                purpose of securing evacuation.
            (3) For each Federal department and agency involved in 
        Operation Allies Welcome--
                    (A) as of the date of the report, the costs 
                incurred; and
                    (B) an identification of the source of appropriated 
                or other funds used to fund the effort.

    (c) Definition of Afghan Evacuee.--In this section, the term 
``Afghan evacuee'' means a person whose evacuation from Afghanistan to 
the United States, or a location overseas controlled by the United 
States, was facilitated by the United States as part of Operation Allies 
Refuge.
    Sec. 2504.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act 
is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 2505.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 2506.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts 
shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to 
such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2022.
    Sec. 2507.  Each amount provided by this division is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) and section 4001(b) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.
     This division may be cited as the ``Afghanistan Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2022''.

                        DIVISION D--OTHER MATTERS

      TITLE I--EXTENSIONS, TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 3101. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE CERTAIN APPOINTMENTS FOR 
                          NATIONAL DISASTER MEDICAL SYSTEM.

    Section 2812(c)(4)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-11(c)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2021'' and 
inserting ``December 3, 2021''.

[[Page 135 STAT. 380]]

SEC. 3102. EXTENDING CERTAIN WAIVER AUTHORITIES.

    (a) National School Lunch Program Requirement Waivers Addressing 
COVID-19.--Section 2202(e) of the Families First Coronavirus Response 
Act (Public Law 116-127; 42 U.S.C. 1760 note) is amended by striking 
``September 30, 2021'' and inserting ``June 30, 2022: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Time period.>> That such waivers 
shall only apply to school year 2021-2022''.

    (b) Funding.--There are hereby appropriated, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out this section.
SEC. 3103. EXTENSION OF ADDITIONAL SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.

    Section 3014(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
SEC. 3104. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY ORDER FOR FENTANYL-RELATED 
                          SUBSTANCES.

    Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  as if included in the enactment 
of the Temporary Reauthorization and Study of the Emergency Scheduling 
of Fentanyl Analogues Act (Public Law 116-114), section 2 of such Act 
(as amended by Public Law 117-12) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 264.>> is amended by 
striking ``October 22, 2021'' and inserting ``January 28, 2022''.
SEC. 3105. EXTENDING THE INCREASED FEDERAL MEDICAL ASSISTANCE 
                          PERCENTAGE FOR TERRITORIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1905(ff) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396d(ff)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2021'' and 
        inserting ``December 3, 2021'' ; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``September 30, 2021'' and 
        inserting ``December 3, 2021''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline. Allotment. Puerto Rico.>>  GAO Review.--Not 
later than November 15, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall review the determination of the allotment for Puerto Rico 
for fiscal year 2022 under section 1108(g) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1308(g)), and include in the review the legal opinion of the 
Comptroller General on the most plausible plain reading of how such 
fiscal year 2022 allotment level should be calculated.
SEC. 3106. MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395iii(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``$165,000,000'' and inserting 
``$69,000,000''.

                       TITLE II--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 3201. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this 
division shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained 
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the

[[Page 135 STAT. 381]]

joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying 
Conference Report 105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this 
division shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
            (2) for purposes of an allocation to the Committee on 
        Appropriations pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974; and
            (3) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.

    Approved September 30, 2021.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5305:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 167 (2021):
            Sept. 21, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 30, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>