[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1977 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1977

                       One Hundred Fourth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
  the fourth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-five


                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management


                    management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $568,062,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $2,000,000 shall be available 
for assessment of the mineral potential of public lands in Alaska 
pursuant to section 1010 of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150), and of 
which not more than $599,999 shall be available to the Needles 
Resources Area for the management of the East Mojave National Scenic 
Area, as defined by the Bureau of Land Management prior to October 1, 
1994, in the California Desert District of the Bureau of Land 
Management, and of which $4,000,000 shall be derived from the special 
receipt account established by section 4 of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)): 
Provided, That appropriations herein made shall not be available for 
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and burros in the 
care of the Bureau or its contractors; and in addition, $27,650,000 for 
Mining Law Administration program operations, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau of Land 
Management and credited to this appropriation from annual mining claim 
fees so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at not more 
than $568,062,000: Provided further, That in addition to funds 
otherwise available, and to remain available until expended, not to 
exceed $5,000,000 from annual mining claim fees shall be credited to 
this account for the costs of administering the mining claim fee 
program, and $2,000,000 from communication site rental fees established 
by the Bureau.


                         wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for fire use and management, fire 
preparedness, emergency presuppression, suppression operations, 
emergency rehabilitation, and renovation or construction of fire 
facilities in the Department of the Interior, $235,924,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $5,025,000, shall be 
available for the renovation or construction of fire facilities: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, persons 
hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and 
lodging without cost from funds available from this appropriation: 
Provided further, That such funds are also available for repayment of 
advances to other appropriation accounts from which funds were 
previously transferred for such purposes: Provided further, That 
unobligated balances of amounts previously appropriated to the Fire 
Protection and Emergency Department of the Interior Firefighting Fund 
may be transferred or merged with this appropriation.


                     central hazardous materials fund

    For expenses necessary for use by the Department of the Interior 
and any of its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, 
including associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, 
pollutants, or contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
seq.), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the Department pursuant to sections 107 or 
113(f) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9607 or 9613(f)), shall be 
credited to this account and shall be available without further 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That such sums recovered from or paid by any party are not 
limited to monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other 
personal or real property, which may be retained, liquidated, or 
otherwise disposed of by the Secretary of the Interior and which shall 
be credited to this account.


                         construction and access

    For acquisition of lands and interests therein, and construction of 
buildings, recreation facilities, roads, trails, and appurtenant 
facilities, $3,115,000, to remain available until expended.


                        payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 6901-07), $101,500,000, of which not to exceed 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 205, 
206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94-579 including administrative expenses 
and acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, $12,800,000 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain 
available until expended.


                    oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$93,379,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 per 
centum of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the provisions of the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title 
II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 876).


                            range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 per 
centum of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under 
sections 3 and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and 
the amount designated for range improvements from grazing fees and 
mineral leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the 
Department of the Interior pursuant to law, but not less than 
$9,113,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $600,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.


                service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under sections 209(b), 304(a), 304(b), 305(a), and 504(g) of 
the Act approved October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and sections 101 
and 203 of Public Law 93-153, to be immediately available until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision to the contrary 
of section 305(a) of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), 
any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to that section, 
whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if not 
appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended under the 
authority of this or subsequent appropriations Acts by the Secretary to 
improve, protect, or rehabilitate any public lands administered through 
the Bureau of Land Management which have been damaged by the action of 
a resource developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, 
without regard to whether all moneys collected from each such 
forfeiture, compromise, or settlement are used on the exact lands 
damage to which led to the forfeiture, compromise, or settlement: 
Provided further, That such moneys are in excess of amounts needed to 
repair damage to the exact land for which collected.


                        miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
law, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing 
either in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator 
is capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                           resource management

    For expenses necessary for scientific and economic studies, 
conservation, management, investigations, protection, and utilization 
of fishery and wildlife resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, 
and for the performance of other authorized functions related to such 
resources; for the general administration of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service; and for maintenance of the herd of long-horned cattle 
on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge; and not less than $1,000,000 
for high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget 
which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as 
authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public Law 93-
408, $497,943,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 1997, of which $11,557,000 shall be available until expended for 
operation and maintenance of fishery mitigation facilities constructed 
by the Corps of Engineers under the Lower Snake River Compensation 
Plan, authorized by the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 (90 
Stat. 2921), to compensate for loss of fishery resources from water 
development projects on the Lower Snake River: Provided, That 
unobligated and unexpended balances in the Resource Management account 
at the end of fiscal year 1995, shall be merged with and made a part of 
the fiscal year 1996 Resource Management appropriation, and shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997: Provided 
further, That no monies appropriated under this Act or any other law 
shall be used to implement subsections (a), (b), (c), (e), (g), or (i) 
of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533), 
until such time as legislation reauthorizing the Act is enacted or 
until the end of fiscal year 1996, whichever is earlier, except that 
monies appropriated under this Act may be used to delist or reclassify 
species pursuant to subsections 4(a)(2)(B), 4(c)(2)(B)(i), and 
4(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act.


                               construction

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, 
and utilization of fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition 
of lands and interests therein; $37,655,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                 natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-380), and the Act of July 27, 1990 (Public Law 
101-337); $4,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That sums provided by any party in fiscal year 1996 and thereafter are 
not limited to monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other 
personal or real property, which may be retained, liquidated or 
otherwise disposed of by the Secretary and such sums or properties 
shall be utilized for the restoration of injured resources, and to 
conduct new damage assessment activities.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, $36,900,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain 
available until expended.


             cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended by 
Public Law 100-478, $8,085,000 for grants to States, to be derived from 
the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, and to remain 
available until expended.


                      national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $10,779,000.

                         rewards and operations

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the African 
Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 
4241-4245, and 1538), $600,000, to remain available until expended.


                north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, $6,750,000, to 
remain available until expended.

        lahontan valley and pyramid lake fish and wildlife fund

    For carrying out section 206(f) of Public Law 101-618, such sums as 
have previously been credited or may be credited hereafter to the 
Lahontan Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish and Wildlife Fund, to be 
available until expended without further appropriation.

                 rhinoceros and tiger conservation fund

    For deposit to the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund, 
$200,000, to remain available until expended, to be available to carry 
out the provisions of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-391).

              wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For deposit to the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund, 
$800,000, to remain available until expended.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 113 
passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $400,000 for payment, at the 
discretion of the Secretary, for information, rewards, or evidence 
concerning violations of laws administered by the United States Fish 
and Wildlife Service, and miscellaneous and emergency expenses of 
enforcement activities, authorized or approved by the Secretary and to 
be accounted for solely on his certificate; repair of damage to public 
roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; options for the purchase 
of land at not to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to 
such public recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent 
with their primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of 
aquaria, buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and to which the United States 
has title, and which are utilized pursuant to law in connection with 
management and investigation of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, 
That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service may, under cooperative 
cost sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share at least one-half the cost 
of printing either in cash or services and the Service determines the 
cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality standards: Provided 
further, That the United States Fish and Wildlife Service may accept 
donated aircraft as replacements for existing aircraft: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior may not spend any of the funds appropriated in this Act 
for the purchase of lands or interests in lands to be used in the 
establishment of any new unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
unless the purchase is approved in advance by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the reprogramming 
procedures contained in House Report 103-551: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available in this Act may be used by the U. S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service to impede or delay the issuance of a wetlands 
permit by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers to the City of Lake 
Jackson, Texas, for the development of a public golf course west of 
Buffalo Camp Bayou between the Brazos River and Highway 332: Provided 
further, That the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service may charge 
reasonable fees for expenses to the Federal Government for providing 
training by the National Education and Training Center: Provided 
further, That all training fees collected shall be available to the 
Director, until expended, without further appropriation, to be used for 
the costs of training and education provided by the National Education 
and Training Center: Provided further, That with respect to lands 
leased for farming pursuant to Public Law 88-567, if for any reason the 
Secretary disapproves for use in 1996 or does not finally approve for 
use in 1996 any pesticide or chemical which was approved for use in 
1995 or had been requested for use in 1996 by the submission of a 
pesticide use proposal as of September 19, 1995, none of the funds in 
this Act may be used to develop, implement, or enforce regulations or 
policies (including pesticide use proposals) related to the use of 
chemicals and pest management that are more restrictive than the 
requirements of applicable State and Federal laws related to the use of 
chemicals and pest management practices on non-Federal lands.

                         National Park Service


                  operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not to exceed $1,593,000 for 
the Volunteers-in-Parks program, and not less than $1,000,000 for high 
priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which shall 
be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act 
of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public Law 93-408, $1,083,151,000, 
without regard to the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
451), of which not to exceed $72,000,000, to remain available until 
expended is to be derived from the special fee account established 
pursuant to title V, section 5201, of Public Law 100-203, and of which 
not more than $500,000 shall be available for development of the 
National Park Service's management plan for the Mojave National 
Preserve: Provided, That these funds shall be strictly limited to the 
development activities for the Preserve's management plan.


                   national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, environmental compliance and review, 
international park affairs, statutory or contractual aid for other 
activities, and grant administration, not otherwise provided for, 
$37,649,000: Provided, That $236,000 of the funds provided herein are 
for the William O. Douglas Outdoor Education Center, subject to 
authorization.


                        historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915), as amended (16 U.S.C. 
470), $36,212,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, 
established by section 108 of that Act, as amended, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1997.


                               construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, $143,225,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $4,500,000 of the funds provided herein shall be 
paid to the Army Corps of Engineers for modifications authorized by 
section 104 of the Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion 
Act of 1989: Provided further, That funds provided under this head, 
derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, established by the 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915), as amended (16 U.S.C. 
470), may be available until expended to render sites safe for visitors 
and for building stabilization.


                     land and water conservation fund

                               (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 1996 by 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.


                  land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the National Park Service, $49,100,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended, and of which $1,500,000 is to administer the State assistance 
program: Provided,  That any funds made available for the purpose of 
acquisition of the Elwha and Glines dams shall be used solely for 
acquisition, and shall not 
be expended until the full purchase amount has been appropriated by the 
Congress.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 518 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
323 shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 411 for 
police-type use, 12 buses, and 5 ambulances: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process 
any grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 
U.S.C. 1913: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to 
the National Park Service may be used to implement an agreement for the 
redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island until such agreement 
has been submitted to the Congress and shall not be implemented prior 
to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full and comprehensive report on the development of the southern 
end of Ellis Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon 
in support of the proposed project.
    None of the funds in this Act may be spent by the National Park 
Service for activities taken in direct response to the United Nations 
Biodiversity Convention.
    The National Park Service may enter into cooperative agreements 
that involve the transfer of National Park Service appropriated funds 
to State, local and tribal governments, other public entities, 
educational institutions, and private nonprofit organizations for the 
public purpose of carrying out National Park Service programs.
    The National Park Service shall, within existing funds, conduct a 
Feasibility Study for a northern access route into Denali National Park 
and Preserve in Alaska, to be completed within one year of the 
enactment of this Act and submitted to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations and to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources and the House Committee on Resources. The Feasibility Study 
shall ensure that resource impacts from any plan to create such access 
route are evaluated with accurate information and according to a 
process that takes into consideration park values, visitor needs, a 
full range of alternatives, the viewpoints of all interested parties, 
including the tourism industry and the State of Alaska, and potential 
needs for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The 
Study shall also address the time required for development of 
alternatives and identify all associated costs.
    This Feasibility Study shall be conducted solely by the National 
Park Service planning personnel permanently assigned to National Park 
Service offices located in the State of Alaska in consultation with the 
State of Alaska Department of Transportation.

                    United States Geological Survey


                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, and the mineral and water resources of the United 
States, its Territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized 
by law (43 U.S.C. 31, 1332 and 1340); classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and 
publish and disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; and 
to conduct inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and 
materials processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 
98g(1)) and related purposes as authorized by law and to publish and 
disseminate data; $730,503,000, of which $62,130,000 shall be available 
for cooperation with States or municipalities for water resources 
investigations, and of which $137,000,000 for resource research and the 
operations of Cooperative Research Units shall remain available until 
September 30, 1997, and of which $16,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for conducting inquiries into the economic conditions 
affecting mining and materials processing industries: Provided, That no 
part of this appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the 
cost of any topographic mapping or water resources investigations 
carried on in cooperation with any State or municipality: Provided 
further, That funds available herein for resource research may be used 
for the purchase of not to exceed 61 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
55 are for replacement only: Provided further, That none of the funds 
available under this head for resource research shall be used to 
conduct new surveys on private property, including new aerial surveys 
for the designation of habitat under the Endangered Species Act, except 
when it is made known to the Federal official having authority to 
obligate or expend such funds that the survey or research has been 
requested and authorized in writing by the property owner or the 
owner's authorized representative: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided herein for resource research may be used to administer a 
volunteer program when it is made known to the Federal official having 
authority to obligate or expend such funds that the volunteers are not 
properly trained or that information gathered by the volunteers is not 
carefully verified: Provided further, That no later than April 1, 1996, 
the Director of the United States Geological Survey shall issue agency 
guidelines for resource research that ensure that scientific and 
technical peer review is utilized as fully as possible in selection of 
projects for funding and ensure the validity and reliability of 
research and data collection on Federal lands: Provided further, That 
no funds available for resource research may be used for any activity 
that was not authorized prior to the establishment of the National 
Biological Survey: Provided further, That once every five years the 
National Academy of Sciences shall review and report on the resource 
research activities of the Survey: Provided further, That if specific 
authorizing legislation is enacted during or before the start of fiscal 
year 1996, the resource research component of the Survey should comply 
with the provisions of that legislation: Provided further, That 
unobligated and unexpended balances in the National Biological Survey, 
Research, inventories and surveys account at the end of fiscal year 
1995, shall be merged with and made a part of the United States 
Geological Survey, Surveys, investigations, and research account and 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996: 
Provided further, That the authority granted to the United States 
Bureau of Mines to conduct mineral surveys and to determine mineral 
values by section 603 of Public Law 94-579 is hereby transferred to, 
and vested in, the Director of the United States Geological Survey.


                        administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 22 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; reimbursement to the General Services 
Administration for security guard services; contracting for the 
furnishing of topographic maps and for the making of geophysical or 
other specialized surveys when it is administratively determined that 
such procedures are in the public interest; construction and 
maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant facilities; 
acquisition of lands for gauging stations and observation wells; 
expenses of the United States National Committee on Geology; and 
payment of compensation and expenses of persons on the rolls of the 
United States Geological Survey appointed, as authorized by law, to 
represent the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
interstate compacts: Provided, That activities funded by appropriations 
herein made may be accomplished through the use of contracts, grants, 
or cooperative agreements as defined in 31 U.S.C. 6302, et seq.

                      Minerals Management Service


                 royalty and offshore minerals management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of 
royalties, as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations 
applicable to oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses 
and operating contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative 
agreements; including the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; $182,994,000, of which not less 
than $70,105,000 shall be available for royalty management activities; 
and an amount not to exceed $15,400,000 for the Technical Information 
Management System and Related Activities of the Outer Continental Shelf 
(OCS) Lands Activity, to be credited to this appropriation and to 
remain available until expended, from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, from rate 
increases to fee collections for OCS administrative activities 
performed by the Minerals Management Service over and above the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1993, and from additional fees for OCS 
administrative activities established after September 30, 1993: 
Provided, That beginning in fiscal year 1996 and thereafter, fees for 
royalty rate relief applications shall be established (and revised as 
needed) in Notices to Lessees, and shall be credited to this account in 
the program areas performing the function, and remain available until 
expended for the costs of administering the royalty rate relief 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 1337(a)(3): Provided further, That $1,500,000 
for computer acquisitions shall remain available until September 30, 
1997: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
available for the payment of interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721 
(b) and (d): Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach 
and marine cleanup activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000 under this head shall be available 
for refunds of overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in 
which the Director of the Minerals Management Service concurred with 
the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or 
Tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments: Provided 
further, That beginning in fiscal year 1996 and thereafter, the 
Secretary shall take appropriate action to collect unpaid and underpaid 
royalties and late payment interest owed by Federal and Indian mineral 
lessees and other royalty payors on amounts received in settlement or 
other resolution of disputes under, and for partial or complete 
termination of, sales agreements for minerals from Federal and Indian 
leases.


                            oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes of title I, 
section 1016, title IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title 
VIII, section 8201 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,440,000, which 
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended.

                            Bureau of Mines


                            mines and minerals

    For expenses necessary for, and incidental to, the closure of the 
United States Bureau of Mines, $64,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 may be used for the 
completion and/or transfer of certain ongoing projects within the 
United States Bureau of Mines, such projects to be identified by the 
Secretary of the Interior within 90 days of enactment of this Act: 
Provided, That there hereby are transferred to, and vested in, the 
Secretary of Energy: (1) the functions pertaining to the promotion of 
health and safety in mines and the mineral industry through research 
vested by law in the Secretary of the Interior or the United States 
Bureau of Mines and performed in fiscal year 1995 by the United States 
Bureau of Mines at its Pittsburgh Research Center in Pennsylvania, and 
at its Spokane Research Center in Washington; (2) the functions 
pertaining to the conduct of inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use and disposal of 
mineral substances vested by law in the Secretary of the Interior or 
the United States Bureau of Mines and performed in fiscal year 1995 by 
the United States Bureau of Mines under the minerals and materials 
science programs at its Pittsburgh Research Center in Pennsylvania, and 
at its Albany Research Center in Oregon; and (3) the functions 
pertaining to mineral reclamation industries and the development of 
methods for the disposal, control, prevention, and reclamation of 
mineral waste products vested by law in the Secretary of the Interior 
or the United States Bureau of Mines and performed in fiscal year 1995 
by the United States Bureau of Mines at its Pittsburgh Research Center 
in Pennsylvania: Provided further, That, if any of the same functions 
were performed in fiscal year 1995 at locations other than those listed 
above, such functions shall not be transferred to the Secretary of 
Energy from those other locations: Provided further, That the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Interior, is authorized to 
make such determinations as may be necessary with regard to the 
transfer of functions which relate to or are used by the Department of 
the Interior, or component thereof affected by this transfer of 
functions, and to make such dispositions of personnel, facilities, 
assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended 
balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other 
funds held, used, arising from, available to or to be made available in 
connection with, the functions transferred herein as are deemed 
necessary to accomplish the purposes of this transfer: Provided 
further, That all reductions in personnel complements resulting from 
the provisions of this Act shall, as to the functions transferred to 
the Secretary of Energy, be done by the Secretary of the Interior as 
though these transfers had not taken place but had been required of the 
Department of the Interior by all other provisions of this Act before 
the transfers of function became effective: Provided further, That the 
transfers of function to the Secretary of Energy shall become effective 
on the date specified by the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, but in no event later than 90 days after enactment into law of 
this Act: Provided further, That the reference to ``function'' 
includes, but is not limited to, any duty, obligation, power, 
authority, responsibility, right, privilege, and activity, or the 
plural thereof, as the case may be.


                        administrative provisions

    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
other contributions, and fees from public and private sources, and to 
prosecute projects using such contributions and fees in cooperation 
with other Federal, State or private agencies: Provided, That the 
Bureau of Mines is authorized, during the current fiscal year, to sell 
directly or through any Government agency, including corporations, any 
metal or mineral products that may be manufactured in pilot plants 
operated by the Bureau of Mines, and the proceeds of such sales shall 
be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
is authorized to convey, without reimbursement, title and all interest 
of the United States in property and facilities of the United States 
Bureau of Mines in Juneau, Alaska, to the City and Borough of Juneau, 
Alaska; in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to the University of Alabama; in Rolla, 
Missouri, to the University of Missouri-Rolla; and in other localities 
to such university or government entities as the Secretary deems 
appropriate.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement


                        regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 15 passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; $95,470,000, and notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, an additional amount shall be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended, from performance bond forfeitures in 
fiscal year 1996: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, may 
utilize directly or through grants to States, moneys collected in 
fiscal year 1996 pursuant to the assessment of civil penalties under 
section 518 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 
(30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim lands adversely affected by coal mining 
practices after August 3, 1977, to remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.


                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of title IV of 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-
87, as amended, including the purchase of not more than 22 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only, $173,887,000, to be derived from 
receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That grants to minimum program States will be 
$1,500,000 per State in fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That of the 
funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 may be used for the emergency 
program authorized by section 410 of Public Law 95-87, as amended, of 
which no more than 25 per centum shall be used for emergency 
reclamation projects in any one State and funds for Federally-
administered emergency reclamation projects under this proviso shall 
not exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year unobligated 
funds appropriated for the emergency reclamation program shall not be 
subject to the 25 per centum limitation per State and may be used 
without fiscal year limitation for emergency projects: Provided 
further, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the 
Interior is authorized to utilize up to 20 per centum from the recovery 
of the delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts: Provided further, That funds made 
available to States under title IV of Public Law 95-87 may be used, at 
their discretion, for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines: Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

    For operation of Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants including expenses 
necessary to provide education and welfare services for Indians, either 
directly or in cooperation with States and other organizations, 
including payment of care, tuition, assistance, and other expenses of 
Indians in boarding homes, or institutions, or schools; grants and 
other assistance to needy Indians; maintenance of law and order; 
management, development, improvement, and protection of resources and 
appurtenant facilities under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, including payment of irrigation assessments and charges; 
acquisition of water rights; advances for Indian industrial and 
business enterprises; operation of Indian arts and crafts shops and 
museums; development of Indian arts and crafts, as authorized by law; 
for the general administration of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
including such expenses in field offices; maintaining of Indian 
reservation roads as defined in section 101 of title 23, United States 
Code; and construction, repair, and improvement of Indian housing, 
$1,384,434,000, of which not to exceed $100,255,000 shall be for 
welfare assistance grants and not to exceed $104,626,000 shall be for 
payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract support costs 
associated with ongoing contracts or grants or compacts entered into 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs prior to fiscal year 1996, as 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
and up to $5,000,000 shall be for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, 
which shall be available for the transitional cost of initial or 
expanded tribal contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian 
Self-Determination Act; and of which not to exceed $330,711,000 for 
school operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education 
programs shall become available for obligation on July 1, 1996, and 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997; and of 
which not to exceed $68,209,000 for higher education scholarships, 
adult vocational training, and assistance to public schools under the 
Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 452 et 
seq.), shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997; 
and of which not to exceed $71,854,000 shall remain available until 
expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, 
litigation support, self-governance grants, the Indian Self-
Determination Fund, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided, 
That tribes and tribal contractors may use their tribal priority 
allocations for unmet indirect costs of ongoing contracts, grants or 
compact agreements: Provided further, That funds made available to 
tribes and tribal organizations through contracts or grants obligated 
during fiscal year 1996, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination 
Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), or grants 
authorized by the Indian Education Amendments of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2001 
and 2008A) shall remain available until expended by the contractor or 
grantee: Provided further, That to provide funding uniformity within a 
Self-Governance Compact, any funds provided in this Act with 
availability for more than one year may be reprogrammed to one year 
availability but shall remain available within the Compact until 
expended: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, Indian tribal governments may, by appropriate changes in 
eligibility criteria or by other means, change eligibility for general 
assistance or change the amount of general assistance payments for 
individuals within the service area of such tribe who are otherwise 
deemed eligible for general assistance payments so long as such changes 
are applied in a consistent manner to individuals similarly situated: 
Provided further, That any savings realized by such changes shall be 
available for use in meeting other priorities of the tribes: Provided 
further, That any net increase in costs to the Federal Government which 
result solely from tribally increased payment levels for general 
assistance shall be met exclusively from funds available to the tribe 
from within its tribal priority allocation: Provided further, That any 
forestry funds allocated to a tribe which remain unobligated as of 
September 30, 1996, may be transferred during fiscal year 1997 to an 
Indian forest land assistance account established for the benefit of 
such tribe within the tribe's trust fund account: Provided further, 
That any such unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on 
September 30, 1997: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
other than the amounts provided herein for assistance to public schools 
under the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 
452 et seq.), shall be available to support the operation of any 
elementary or secondary school in the State of Alaska in fiscal year 
1996: Provided further, That funds made available in this or any other 
Act for expenditure through September 30, 1997 for schools funded by 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall be available only to the schools 
which are in the Bureau of Indian Affairs school system as of September 
1, 1995: Provided further, That no funds available to the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs shall be used to support expanded grades for any school 
beyond the grade structure in place at each school in the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs school system as of October 1, 1995: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 2011(h)(1)(B) and (c), 
upon the recommendation of a local school board for a Bureau of Indian 
Affairs operated school, the Secretary shall establish rates of basic 
compensation or annual salary rates for the positions of teachers and 
counselors (including dormitory and homeliving counselors) at the 
school at a level not less than that for comparable positions in public 
school districts in the same geographic area, to become effective on 
July 1, 1997: Provided further, That of the funds available only 
through September 30, 1995, not to exceed $8,000,000 in unobligated and 
unexpended balances in the Operation of Indian Programs account shall 
be merged with and made a part of the fiscal year 1996 Operation of 
Indian Programs appropriation, and shall remain available for 
obligation for employee severance, relocation, and related expenses, 
until March 31, 1996.


                               construction

    For construction, major repair, and improvement of irrigation and 
power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, 
$100,833,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amounts as may be available for the construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project and for other water resource development activities 
related to the Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act may be 
transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided further, That not to 
exceed 6 per centum of contract authority available to the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be used to cover 
the road program management costs of the Bureau of Indian Affairs: 
Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams 
program pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a non-
reimbursable basis: Provided further, That for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, in implementing new construction or facilities 
improvement and repair project grants in excess of $100,000 that are 
provided to tribally controlled grant schools under Public Law 100-297, 
as amended, the Secretary of the Interior shall use the Administrative 
and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs 
contained in 43 CFR part 12 as the regulatory requirements: Provided 
further, That such grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of 43 
CFR; the Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and determine a 
schedule of payments for the work to be performed: Provided further, 
That in considering applications, the Secretary shall consider whether 
the Indian tribe or tribal organization would be deficient in assuring 
that the construction projects conform to applicable building standards 
and codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
required by 25 U.S.C. 2005(a), with respect to organizational and 
financial management capabilities: Provided further, That if the 
Secretary declines an application, the Secretary shall follow the 
requirements contained in 25 U.S.C. 2505(f): Provided further, That any 
disputes between the Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant shall 
be subject to the disputes provision in 25 U.S.C. 2508(e).


  indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, $80,645,000, to remain available 
until expended; of which $78,600,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 87-483, 97-293, 101-618, 102-374, 102-441, 102-
575, and 103-116, and for implementation of other enacted water rights 
settlements, including not to exceed $8,000,000, which shall be for the 
Federal share of the Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina Claims 
Settlement, as authorized by section 5(a) of Public Law 103-116; and of 
which $1,045,000 shall be available pursuant to Public Laws 98-500, 99-
264, and 100-580; and of which $1,000,000 shall be available (1) to 
liquidate obligations owed tribal and individual Indian payees of any 
checks canceled pursuant to section 1003 of the Competitive Equality 
Banking Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-86 (101 Stat. 659)), 31 U.S.C. 
3334(b), (2) to restore to Individual Indian Monies trust funds, Indian 
Irrigation Systems, and Indian Power Systems accounts amounts invested 
in credit unions or defaulted savings and loan associations and which 
were not Federally insured, and (3) to reimburse Indian trust fund 
account holders for losses to their respective accounts where the claim 
for said loss(es) has been reduced to a judgment or settlement 
agreement approved by the Department of Justice.


                technical assistance of indian enterprises

    For payment of management and technical assistance requests 
associated with loans and grants approved under the Indian Financing 
Act of 1974, as amended, $500,000.


                  indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans $4,500,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$35,914,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $500,000.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall be available 
for expenses of exhibits, and purchase of not to exceed 275 passenger 
carrying motor vehicles, of which not to exceed 215 shall be for 
replacement only.

                 Territorial and International Affairs


                        assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $65,188,000, of which 
(1) $61,661,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, 
insular management controls, and brown tree snake control and research; 
grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and 
expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the 
Government of American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, 
for construction and support of governmental functions; grants to the 
Government of the Virgin Islands as authorized by law; grants to the 
Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and grants to the Government 
of the Northern Mariana Islands as authorized by law (Public Law 94-
241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $3,527,000 shall be available for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs: Provided, That all 
financial transactions of the territorial and local governments herein 
provided for, including such transactions of all agencies or 
instrumentalities established or utilized by such governments, may be 
audited by the General Accounting Office, at its discretion, in 
accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be 
provided according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special 
Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance for the 
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 99-396, or any 
subsequent legislation related to Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands Covenant grant funding: Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided for technical assistance, sufficient funding shall be made 
available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, 
That the funds for the program of operations and maintenance 
improvement are appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and 
maintenance of capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the 
Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the 
Federated States of Micronesia through assessments of long-range 
operations and maintenance needs, improved capability of local 
operations and maintenance institutions and agencies (including 
management and vocational education training), and project-specific 
maintenance (with territorial participation and cost sharing to be 
determined by the Secretary based on the individual territory's 
commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): Provided 
further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under this head 
in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal 
matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided 
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).


                       compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compacts of 
Free Association, and for economic assistance and necessary expenses 
for the Republic of Palau as provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 
232, and 233 of the Compact of Free Association, $24,938,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by Public Law 99-239 and Public 
Law 99-658: Provided, That notwithstanding section 112 of Public Law 
101-219 (103 Stat. 1873), the Secretary of the Interior may agree to 
technical changes in the specifications for the project described in 
the subsidiary agreement negotiated under section 212(a) of the Compact 
of Free Association, Public Law 99-658, or its annex, if the changes do 
not result in increased costs to the United States.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Departmental Management


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, $57,796,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 may be for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Office of the Solicitor


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $34,608,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$23,939,000.

                        Construction Management


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Construction Management, 
$500,000.

                   National Indian Gaming Commission


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Indian Gaming Commission, 
pursuant to Public Law 100-497, $1,000,000: Provided, That on March 1, 
1996, the Chairman shall submit to the Secretary a report detailing 
those Indian tribes or tribal organizations with gaming operations that 
are in full compliance, partial compliance, or non-compliance with the 
provisions of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701, et 
seq.): Provided further, That the information contained in the report 
shall be updated on a continuing basis.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians


                          federal trust programs

    For operation of trust programs for Indians by direct expenditure, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, $16,338,000, 
of which $15,891,000 shall remain available until expended for trust 
funds management: Provided, That funds made available to tribes and 
tribal organizations through contracts or grants obligated during 
fiscal year 1996, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), shall remain available 
until expended by the contractor or grantee: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of limitations 
shall not commence to run on any claim, including any claim in 
litigation pending on the date of this Act, concerning losses to or 
mismanagement of trust funds, until the affected tribe or individual 
Indian has been furnished with the accounting of such funds from which 
the beneficiary can determine whether there has been a loss: Provided 
further, That obligated and unobligated balances provided for trust 
funds management within ``Operation of Indian programs'', Bureau of 
Indian Affairs are hereby transferred to and merged with this 
appropriation.

                       Administrative Provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 15 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in ``Departmental Management'', ``Office 
of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; 
for contingency planning subsequent to actual oilspills; response and 
natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual 
oilspills; for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 
1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation 
projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, 
from any no year funds available to the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not 
carrying out the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: 
Provided, That appropriations made in this title for fire suppression 
purposes shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
during the preceding fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other 
Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other 
equipment in connection with their use for fire suppression purposes, 
such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently available 
at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, That for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities, no funds shall be 
made available under this authority until funds appropriated to the 
``Emergency Department of the Interior Firefighting Fund'' shall have 
been exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible: Provided further, That such replenishment funds shall be used 
to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds 
were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the 
Interior for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. 
Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued for services or rentals 
for periods not in excess of twelve months beginning at any time during 
the fiscal year.
    Sec. 107. Appropriations made in this title from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund for acquisition of lands and waters, or interests 
therein, shall be available for transfer, with the approval of the 
Secretary, between the following accounts: Bureau of Land Management, 
Land acquisition, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Land 
acquisition, and National Park Service, Land acquisition and State 
assistance. Use of such funds are subject to the reprogramming 
guidelines of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec.  108. Prior to the transfer of Presidio properties to the 
Presidio Trust, when authorized, the Secretary may not obligate in any 
calendar month more than \1/12\ of the fiscal year 1996 appropriation 
for operation of the Presidio: Provided, That this section shall expire 
on December 31, 1995.
    Sec. 109. Section 6003 of Public Law 101-380 is hereby repealed.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended by the Secretary of 
the Interior for developing, promulgating, and thereafter implementing 
a rule concerning rights-of-way under section 2477 of the Revised 
Statutes.
    Sec. 111. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of Northern, 
Central, and Southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
     Sec. 112. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of leasing, or the approval 
or permitting of any drilling or other exploration activity, on lands 
within the North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 113. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico for Outer Continental Shelf 
Lease Sale 151 in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil 
Resource Management Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
     Sec. 114. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Atlantic for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 164 
in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil Resource Management 
Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 115. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act or any 
subsequent Act providing for appropriations in fiscal years 1996 and 
1997, not more than 50 percent of any self-governance funds that would 
otherwise be allocated to each Indian tribe in the State of Washington 
shall actually be paid to or on account of such Indian tribe from and 
after the time at which such tribe shall--
        (1) take unilateral action that adversely impacts the existing 
    rights to and/or customary uses of, nontribal member owners of fee 
    simple land within the exterior boundary of the tribe's reservation 
    to water, electricity, or any other similar utility or necessity 
    for the nontribal members' residential use of such land; or
        (2) restrict or threaten to restrict said owners use of or 
    access to publicly maintained rights-of-way necessary or desirable 
    in carrying the utilities or necessities described above.
    (b) Such penalty shall not attach to the initiation of any legal 
actions with respect to such rights or the enforcement of any final 
judgments, appeals from which have been exhausted, with respect 
thereto.
    Sec. 116. Within 30 days after the enactment of this Act, the 
Department of the Interior shall issue a specific schedule for the 
completion of the Lake Cushman Land Exchange Act (Public Law 102-436) 
and shall complete the exchange not later than September 30, 1996.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding Public Law 90-544, as amended, the 
National Park Service is authorized to expend appropriated funds for 
maintenance and repair of the Company Creek Road in the Lake Chelan 
National Recreation Area: Provided, That appropriated funds shall not 
be expended for the purpose of improving the property of private 
individuals unless specifically authorized by law.
    Sec. 118. Section 4(b) of Public Law 94-241 (90 Stat. 263) as added 
by section 10 of Public Law 99-396 is amended by deleting ``until 
Congress otherwise provides by law.'' and inserting in lieu thereof: 
``except that, for fiscal years 1996 through 2002, payments to the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to the multi-year 
funding agreements contemplated under the Covenant shall be $11,000,000 
annually, subject to an equal local match and all other requirements 
set forth in the Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future 
Federal Financial Assistance of the Northern Mariana Islands, executed 
on December 17, 1992 between the special representative of the 
President of the United States and special representatives of the 
Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands with any additional amounts 
otherwise made available under this section in any fiscal year and not 
required to meet the schedule of payments in this subsection to be 
provided as set forth in subsection (c) until Congress otherwise 
provides by law.
    ``(c) The additional amounts referred to in subsection (b) shall be 
made available to the Secretary for obligation as follows:
        ``(1) for fiscal years 1996 through 2001, $4,580,000 annually 
    for capital infrastructure projects as Impact Aid for Guam under 
    section 104(c)(6) of Public Law 99-239;
        ``(2) for fiscal year 1996, $7,700,000 shall be provided for 
    capital infrastructure projects in American Samoa; $4,420,000 for 
    resettlement of Rongelap Atoll; and
        ``(3) for fiscal years 1997 and thereafter, all such amounts 
    shall be available solely for capital infrastructure projects in 
    Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the 
    Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the 
    Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall 
    Islands: Provided, That, in fiscal year 1997, $3,000,000 of such 
    amounts shall be made available to the College of the Northern 
    Marianas and beginning in fiscal year 1997, and in each year 
    thereafter, not to exceed $3,000,000 may be allocated, as provided 
    in appropriations Acts, to the Secretary of the Interior for use by 
    Federal agencies or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
    Islands to address immigration, labor, and law enforcement issues 
    in the Northern Mariana Islands. The specific projects to be funded 
    in American Samoa shall be set forth in a five-year plan for 
    infrastructure assistance developed by the Secretary of the 
    Interior in consultation with the American Samoa Government and 
    updated annually and submitted to the Congress concurrent with the 
    budget justifications for the Department of the Interior. In 
    developing budget recommendations for capital infrastructure 
    funding, the Secretary shall indicate the highest priority 
    projects, consider the extent to which particular projects are part 
    of an overall master plan, whether such project has been reviewed 
    by the Corps of Engineers and any recommendations made as a result 
    of such review, the extent to which a set-aside for maintenance 
    would enhance the life of the project, the degree to which a local 
    cost-share requirement would be consistent with local economic and 
    fiscal capabilities, and may propose an incremental set-aside, not 
    to exceed $2,000,000 per year, to remain available without fiscal 
    year limitation, as an emergency fund in the event of natural or 
    other disasters to supplement other assistance in the repair, 
    replacement, or hardening of essential facilities: Provided 
    further, That the cumulative amount set aside for such emergency 
    fund may not exceed $10,000,000 at any time.
    ``(d) Within the amounts allocated for infrastructure pursuant to 
this section, and subject to the specific allocations made in 
subsection (c), additional contributions may be made, as set forth in 
appropriations Acts, to assist in the resettlement of Rongelap Atoll: 
Provided, That the total of all contributions from any Federal source 
after enactment of this Act may not exceed $32,000,000 and shall be 
contingent upon an agreement, satisfactory to the President, that such 
contributions are a full and final settlement of all obligations of the 
United States to assist in the resettlement of Rongelop Atoll and that 
such funds will be expended solely on resettlement activities and will 
be properly audited and accounted for. In order to provide such 
contributions in a timely manner, each Federal agency providing 
assistance or services, or conducting activities, in the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands, is authorized to make funds available through the 
Secretary of the Interior, to assist in the resettlement of Rongelap. 
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit the provision of 
ex gratia assistance pursuant to section 105(c)(2) of the Compact of 
Free Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239, 99 Stat. 1770, 1792) 
including for individuals choosing not to resettle at Rongelap, except 
that no such assistance for such individuals may be provided until the 
Secretary notifies the Congress that the full amount of all funds 
necessary for resettlement at Rongelap has been provided.''.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                            forest research

    For necessary expenses of forest research as authorized by law, 
$178,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with, and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, Territories, possessions, and 
others and for forest pest management activities, cooperative forestry 
and education and land conservation activities, $136,794,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by law.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, for ecosystem planning, inventory, and 
monitoring, and for administrative expenses associated with the 
management of funds provided under the heads ``Forest Research'', 
``State and Private Forestry'', ``National Forest System'', 
``Construction'', ``Fire Protection and Emergency Suppression'', and 
``Land Acquisition'', $1,256,253,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997, and including 65 per centum of all 
monies received during the prior fiscal year as fees collected under 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended, in 
accordance with section 4 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)): Provided, 
That unobligated and unexpended balances in the National Forest System 
account at the end of fiscal year 1995, shall be merged with and made a 
part of the fiscal year 1996 National Forest System appropriation, and 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997: 
Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 of the funds provided herein 
for road maintenance shall be available for the planned obliteration of 
roads which are no longer needed.


                         wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to National Forest System lands or other lands under fire 
protection agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned over 
National Forest System lands, $385,485,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That unexpended balances of amounts previously 
appropriated under any other headings for Forest Service fire 
activities may be transferred to and merged with this appropriation: 
Provided further, That such funds are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriations accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $163,500,000, to remain available until expended, for 
construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities, and for 
construction and repair of forest roads and trails by the Forest 
Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: 
Provided, That funds becoming available in fiscal year 1996 under the 
Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury of the United States: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, may 
be obligated for the construction of forest roads by timber purchasers: 
Provided further, That $2,500,000 of the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for a grant to the ``Non-Profit Citizens for the 
Columbia Gorge Discovery Center'' for the construction of the Columbia 
Gorge Discovery Center: Provided further, That the Forest Service is 
authorized to grant the unobligated balance of funds appropriated in 
fiscal year 1995 for the construction of the Columbia Gorge Discovery 
Center to the ``Non-Profit Citizens for the Columbia Gorge Discovery 
Center'' to be used for the same purpose: Provided further, That the 
Forest Service is authorized to convey the land needed for the 
construction of the Columbia Gorge Discovery Center without cost to the 
``Non-Profit Citizens for the Columbia Gorge Discovery Center'': 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds originally appropriated under this head in Public Law 101-512 for 
the Forest Service share of a new research facility at the University 
of Missouri, Columbia, shall be available for a grant to the University 
of Missouri, as the Federal share in the construction of the new 
facility: Provided further, That agreed upon lease of space in the new 
facility shall be provided to the Forest Service without charge for the 
life of the building.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the Forest Service, $41,200,000, to be derived from the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,069,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, to be derived from funds deposited by 
State, county, or municipal governments, public school districts, or 
other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of December 4, 
1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until expended.

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 per centum of all moneys received during the prior 
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in 
National Forests in the sixteen Western States, pursuant to section 
401(b)(1) of Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed 6 per centum shall be available for 
administrative expenses associated with on-the-ground range 
rehabilitation, protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $92,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.

               administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (a) purchase of not to exceed 183 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 32 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 151 shall be for replacement; acquisition of 22 
passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such 
vehicles; operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to 
exceed two for replacement only, and acquisition of 20 aircraft from 
excess sources; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing 
aircraft being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in 
value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; 
(b) services pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (c) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (d) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein, pursuant to the Act 
of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 428a); (e) for expenses pursuant to the 
Volunteers in the National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, 
558a note); and (f) for debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 
U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to change the boundaries of any region, to abolish any 
region, to move or close any regional office for research, State and 
private forestry, or National Forest System administration of the 
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, or to implement any 
reorganization, ``reinvention'' or other type of organizational 
restructuring of the Forest Service, other than the relocation of the 
Regional Office for Region 5 of the Forest Service from San Francisco 
to excess military property at Mare Island, Vallejo, California, 
without the consent of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee 
on Resources in the United States House of Representatives.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
advanced to the Fire and Emergency Suppression appropriation and may be 
used for forest firefighting and the emergency rehabilitation of 
burned-over lands under its jurisdiction: Provided, That no funds shall 
be made available under this authority until funds appropriated to the 
``Emergency Forest Service Firefighting Fund'' shall have been 
exhausted.
    Any funds available to the Forest Service may be used for 
retrofitting Mare Island facilities to accommodate the relocation: 
Provided, That funds for the move must come from funds otherwise 
available to Region 5: Provided further, That any funds to be provided 
for such purposes shall only be available upon approval of the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Foreign Agricultural Service in connection with forest and 
rangeland research, technical information, and assistance in foreign 
countries, and shall be available to support forestry and related 
natural resource activities outside the United States and its 
territories and possessions, including technical assistance, education 
and training, and cooperation with United States and international 
organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with 
the reprogramming procedures contained in House Report 103-551.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service may be used to disseminate 
program information to private and public individuals and organizations 
through the use of nonmonetary items of nominal value and to provide 
nonmonetary awards of nominal value and to incur necessary expenses for 
the nonmonetary recognition of private individuals and organizations 
that make contributions to Forest Service programs.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money collected, in 
advance or otherwise, by the Forest Service under authority of section 
101 of Public Law 93-153 (30 U.S.C. 185(1)) as reimbursement of 
administrative and other costs incurred in processing pipeline right-
of-way or permit applications and for costs incurred in monitoring the 
construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of any pipeline 
and related facilities, may be used to reimburse the applicable 
appropriation to which such costs were originally charged.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, 
as amended by Public Law 93-408.
    None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for timber 
sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 
percent of the fiscal year 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National 
Forest, Ohio: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to 
hardwood stands damaged by natural disaster: Provided further, That 
landscape architects shall be used to maintain a visually pleasing 
forest.
    Any money collected from the States for fire suppression assistance 
rendered by the Forest Service on non-Federal lands not in the vicinity 
of National Forest System lands shall be used to reimburse the 
applicable appropriation and shall remain available until expended as 
the Secretary may direct in conducting activities authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 2101 (note), 2101-2110, 1606, and 2111.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Forest Service is 
authorized to employ or otherwise contract with persons at regular 
rates of pay, as determined by the Service, to perform work occasioned 
by emergencies such as fires, storms, floods, earthquakes or any other 
unavoidable cause without regard to Sundays, Federal holidays, and the 
regular workweek.
    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, eighty percent of the 
funds appropriated to the Forest Service in the National Forest System 
and Construction accounts and planned to be allocated to activities 
under the ``Jobs in the Woods'' program for projects on National Forest 
land in the State of Washington may be granted directly to the 
Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife for accomplishment of 
planned projects. Twenty percent of said funds shall be retained by the 
Forest Service for planning and administering projects. Project 
selection and prioritization shall be accomplished by the Forest 
Service with such consultation with the State of Washington as the 
Forest Service deems appropriate.
    For fiscal years in 1996 and 1997, the Secretary shall continue the 
current Tongass Land Management Plan (TLMP) and may accommodate 
commercial tourism (if an agreement is signed between the Forest 
Service and the Alaska Visitors' Association), except that during this 
period, the Secretary shall maintain at least the number of acres of 
suitable available and suitable scheduled timber lands, and Allowable 
Sale Quantity, as identified in the Preferred Alternative (Alternative 
P) in the Tongass Land and Resources Management Plan and Final 
Environmental Impact Statement (dated October 1992) as selected in the 
Record of Decision Review Draft #3-2/93. Nothing in this section, 
including the ASQ identified in Alternative P, shall be construed to 
limit the Secretary's consideration of new information or to prejudice 
the future revision, amendment or modification of TLMP based upon 
sound, verifiable scientific data.
    If the Forest Service determines in a Supplemental Evaluation to an 
Environmental Impact Statement that no additional analysis under the 
National Environmental Policy Act or section 810 of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act is necessary for any timber sale or 
offering which has been prepared for acceptance by, or award to, a 
purchaser after December 31, 1988, that has been subsequently 
determined by the Forest Service to be available for sale or offering 
to one or more other purchaser, the change of purchasers for whatever 
reason shall not be considered a significant new circumstance, and the 
Forest Service may offer or award such timber sale or offering to a 
different purchaser or offeree, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law. A determination by the Forest Service pursuant to this paragraph 
shall not be subject to judicial review.
    None of the funds appropriated under this Act for the Forest 
Service shall be made available for the purpose of applying paint to 
rocks, or rock colorization: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Forest Service shall not require of any 
individual or entity, as part of any permitting process under its 
authority, or as a requirement of compliance with the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4231 et seq.), the painting 
or colorization of rocks.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                 fossil energy research and development

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for promoting health and safety in mines and the mineral 
industry through research (30 U.S.C. 3, 861(b), and 951(a)), for 
conducting inquiries, technological investigations and research 
concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal of mineral 
substances without objectionable social and environmental costs (30 
U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), and for the development of methods for the 
disposal, control, prevention, and reclamation of waste products in the 
mining, minerals, metal, and mineral reclamation industries (30 U.S.C. 
3 and 21a), $417,169,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no part of the sum herein made available shall be used for the 
field testing of nuclear explosives in the recovery of oil and gas.

                      alternative fuels production


                      (including transfer of funds)

    Monies received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1995, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the General Fund of the 
Treasury. Monies received as revenue sharing from the operation of the 
Great Plains Gasification Plant shall be immediately transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For necessary expenses in carrying out naval petroleum and oil 
shale reserve activities, $148,786,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) 
shall not apply to fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That section 501 
of Public Law 101-45 is hereby repealed.

                          energy conservation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $553,293,000, to remain available until expended, 
including, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the excess 
amount for fiscal year 1996 determined under the provisions of section 
3003(d) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502), and of which $16,000,000 
shall be derived from available unobligated balances in the Biomass 
Energy Development account: Provided, That $140,696,000 shall be for 
use in energy conservation programs as defined in section 3008(3) of 
Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507) and shall not be available until 
excess amounts are determined under the provisions of section 3003(d) 
of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509 such sums shall 
be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: $114,196,000 for the 
weatherization assistance program and $26,500,000 for the State energy 
conservation program.

                          economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the 
Economic Regulatory Administration and the Office of Hearings and 
Appeals, $6,297,000, to remain available until expended.

                      strategic petroleum reserve


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant 
to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $287,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $187,000,000 shall be derived by transfer of unobligated 
balances from the ``SPR petroleum account'' and $100,000,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from the ``SPR Decommissioning Fund'': Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act, the Secretary shall draw down and sell up to seven million barrels 
of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: Provided further, That the 
proceeds from the sale shall be deposited into a special account in the 
Treasury, to be established and known as the ``SPR Decommissioning 
Fund'', and shall be available for the purpose of removal of oil from 
and decommissioning of the Weeks Island site and for other purposes 
related to the operations of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

                         spr petroleum account

    Notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 6240(d) the United States share of crude 
oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk Hills) may be sold or 
otherwise disposed of to other than the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: 
Provided, That outlays in fiscal year 1996 resulting from the use of 
funds in this account shall not exceed $5,000,000.

                   energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $72,266,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 4(d) of the Service 
Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 353(d)) or any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated under this heading hereafter may be used to enter 
into a contract for end use consumption surveys for a term not to 
exceed eight years: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, hereafter the Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey 
shall be conducted on a triennial basis.

            administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made 
to other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for 
which the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to 
prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, 
private, or foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received 
by or for the account of the Department of Energy or otherwise 
generated by sale of products in connection with projects of the 
Department appropriated under this Act may be retained by the Secretary 
of Energy, to be available until expended, and used only for plant 
construction, operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities 
as provided in appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: 
Provided further, That the remainder of revenues after the making of 
such payments shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts: Provided further, That any contract, agreement, or provision 
thereof entered into by the Secretary pursuant to this authority shall 
not be executed prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not 
including any day in which either House of Congress is not in session 
because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full comprehensive 
report on such project, including the facts and circumstances relied 
upon in support of the proposed project.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to the Indian Health Service, $1,747,842,000, together 
with payments received during the fiscal year pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 
300aaa-2 for services furnished by the Indian Health Service: Provided, 
That funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be 
obligated at the time of the grant or contract award and thereafter 
shall remain available to the tribe or tribal organization without 
fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That $12,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended, for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency 
Fund: Provided further, That $350,564,000 for contract medical care 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, not less than $11,306,000 
shall be used to carry out the loan repayment program under section 108 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds provided in this Act may be used for one-year 
contracts and grants which are to be performed in two fiscal years, so 
long as the total obligation is recorded in the year for which the 
funds are appropriated: Provided further, That the amounts collected by 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of title 
IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be available for two 
fiscal years after the fiscal year in which they were collected, for 
the purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable conditions and 
requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act 
(exclusive of planning, design, or construction of new facilities): 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $7,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended, for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, which 
shall be available for the transitional costs of initial or expanded 
tribal contracts, grants or cooperative agreements with the Indian 
Health Service under the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination 
Act: Provided further, That funding contained herein, and in any 
earlier appropriations Acts for scholarship programs under the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997: Provided further, That amounts 
received by tribes and tribal organizations under title IV of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended, shall be reported and 
accounted for and available to the receiving tribes and tribal 
organizations until expended.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the 
Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, 
and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act with respect to 
environmental health and facilities support activities of the Indian 
Health Service, $238,958,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for the planning, design, construction or renovation of 
health facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be 
used to purchase land for sites to construct, improve, or enlarge 
health or related facilities.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); and for expenses of attendance 
at meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for 
which the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved 
conduct, supervision, or management of those functions or activities: 
Provided, That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care 
at all tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, 
subject to charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under 
the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-53) shall be 
credited to the account of the facility providing the service and shall 
be available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health 
Service shall be administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian 
Sanitation Facilities Act) and Public Law 93-638, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act, except those used for administrative and program direction 
purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at curtailing 
Federal travel and transportation: Provided further, That the Indian 
Health Service shall neither bill nor charge those Indians who may have 
the economic means to pay unless and until such time as Congress has 
agreed upon a specific policy to do so and has directed the Indian 
Health Service to implement such a policy: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds previously or herein 
made available to a tribe or tribal organization through a contract, 
grant or agreement authorized by title I of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 
U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-governance 
funding agreement under title III of the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act of 1975 and thereafter shall remain available 
to the tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
Health Service in this Act shall be used to implement the final rule 
published in the Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the 
Department of Health and Human Services, relating to eligibility for 
the health care services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian 
Health Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased 
costs associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has 
been included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted 
for in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided 
further, That the appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service 
may not be altered without advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

              Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

                            indian education

    For necessary expenses to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title IX, part A, subpart 1 of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, as amended, and section 215 of the Department of 
Education Organization Act, $52,500,000.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $20,345,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household: Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development


                         payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), $5,500,000.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed thirty years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to 5 replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, rental, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees; $308,188,000, of which 
not to exceed $30,472,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, exhibition 
reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, the 
repatriation of skeletal remains program, research equipment, 
information management, and Latino programming shall remain available 
until expended and, including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations.

        construction and improvements, national zoological park

    For necessary expenses of planning, construction, remodeling, and 
equipping of buildings and facilities at the National Zoological Park, 
by contract or otherwise, $3,250,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  repair and restoration of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair and restoration of buildings owned 
or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract or otherwise, 
as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 
623), including not to exceed $10,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $33,954,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, 
and exterior repair or restoration of buildings of the Smithsonian 
Institution may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on 
the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $27,700,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                        National Gallery of Art


                          salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $51,844,000, of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special 
exhibition program shall remain available until expended.


             repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized, $6,442,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $10,323,000: 
Provided, That 40 U.S.C. 193n is hereby amended by striking the word 
``and'' after the word ``Institution'' and inserting in lieu thereof a 
comma, and by inserting ``and the Trustees of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts,'' after the word ``Art,''.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses of capital repair and rehabilitation of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $8,983,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$5,840,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $82,259,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to groups and 
individuals pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and for administering 
the functions of the Act, to remain available until September 30, 1997.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$17,235,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997, to the 
National Endowment for the Arts, of which $7,500,000 shall be available 
for purposes of section 5(p)(1): Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal 
to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and 
other property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of the Endowment 
under the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 11(a)(2)(A) and 
11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $94,000,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$16,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997, of which 
$10,000,000 shall be available to the National Endowment for the 
Humanities for the purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as 
may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of 
money, and other property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of 
the Endowment under the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 
11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                      Institute of Museum Services

                       grants and administration

    For carrying out title II of the Arts, Humanities, and Cultural 
Affairs Act of 1976, as amended, $21,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997.

                       administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $834,000.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (99 Stat. 
1261; 20 U.S.C. 956(a)), as amended, $6,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation, $2,500,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,090,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members will be compensated at a rate not to exceed the rate for 
Executive Schedule Level IV.

             Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial 
Commission, established by the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 694), 
as amended by Public Law 92-332 (86 Stat. 401), $147,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1997.

              Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation

                           public development

    Funds made available under this heading in prior years shall be 
available for operating and administrative expenses and for the orderly 
closure of the Corporation, as well as operating and administrative 
expenses for the functions transferred to the General Services 
Administration.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388, as amended, $28,707,000; of which $1,575,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the 
Museum's exhibition program shall remain available until expended.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is 
not complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of 
such department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless notice of 
such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the Committees 
on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
    Sec. 307. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant 
sequoia (sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest 
System or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than 
such sales were conducted in fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal 
of the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 310. Where the actual costs of construction projects under 
self-determination contracts, compacts, or grants, pursuant to Public 
Laws 93-638, 103-413, or 100-297, are less than the estimated costs 
thereof, use of the resulting excess funds shall be determined by the 
appropriate Secretary after consultation with the tribes.
    Sec. 311. Notwithstanding Public Law 103-413, quarterly payments of 
funds to tribes and tribal organizations under annual funding 
agreements pursuant to section 108 of Public Law 93-638, as amended, 
may be made on the first business day following the first day of a 
fiscal quarter.
    Sec. 312. None of funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps program, unless the relevant 
agencies of the Department of the Interior and/or Agriculture follow 
appropriate reprogramming guidelines: Provided, That if no funds are 
provided for the AmeriCorps program by the VA-HUD and Independent 
Agencies fiscal year 1996 appropriations bill, then none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used for 
the AmeriCorps programs.
    Sec. 313. (a) On or before April 1, 1996, the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Development Corporation shall--
        (1) transfer and assign in accordance with this section all of 
    its rights, title, and interest in and to all of the leases, 
    covenants, agreements, and easements it has executed or will 
    execute by March 31, 1996, in carrying out its powers and duties 
    under the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act (40 
    U.S.C. 871-885) and the Federal Triangle Development Act (40 U.S.C. 
    1101-1109) to the General Services Administration, National Capital 
    Planning Commission, or the National Park Service; and
        (2) except as provided by subsection (d), transfer all rights, 
    title, and interest in and to all property, both real and personal, 
    held in the name of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation 
    to the General Services Administration.
    (b) The responsibilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development 
Corporation transferred to the General Services Administration under 
subsection (a) include, but are not limited to, the following:
        (1) Collection of revenue owed the Federal Government as a 
    result of real estate sales or lease agreements entered into by the 
    Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation and private parties, 
    including, at a minimum, with respect to the following projects:
            (A) The Willard Hotel property on Square 225.
            (B) The Gallery Row project on Square 457.
            (C) The Lansburgh's project on Square 431.
            (D) The Market Square North project on Square 407.
        (2) Collection of sale or lease revenue owed the Federal 
    Government (if any) in the event two undeveloped sites owned by the 
    Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation on Squares 457 and 406 
    are sold or leased prior to April 1, 1996.
        (3) Application of collected revenue to repay United States 
    Treasury debt incurred by the Pennsylvania Avenue Development 
    Corporation in the course of acquiring real estate.
        (4) Performing financial audits for projects in which the 
    Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation has actual or potential 
    revenue expectation, as identified in paragraphs (1) and (2), in 
    accordance with procedures described in applicable sale or lease 
    agreements.
        (5) Disposition of real estate properties which are or become 
    available for sale and lease or other uses.
        (6) Payment of benefits in accordance with the Uniform 
    Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisitions Policies Act 
    of 1970 to which persons in the project area squares are entitled 
    as a result of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation's 
    acquisition of real estate.
        (7) Carrying out the responsibilities of the Pennsylvania 
    Avenue Development Corporation under the Federal Triangle 
    Development Act (40 U.S.C. 1101-1109), including responsibilities 
    for managing assets and liabilities of the Corporation under such 
    Act.
    (c) In carrying out the responsibilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Development Corporation transferred under this section, the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration shall have the 
following powers:
        (1) To acquire lands, improvements, and properties by purchase, 
    lease or exchange, and to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of real 
    or personal property as necessary to complete the development plan 
    developed under section 5 of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development 
    Corporation Act of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 874) if a notice of intention to 
    carry out such acquisition or disposal is first transmitted to the 
    Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Environment and Public Works and the Committee on Appropriations of 
    the Senate and at least 60 days elapse after the date of such 
    transmission.
        (2) To modify from time to time the plan referred to in 
    paragraph (1) if such modification is first transmitted to the 
    Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Environment and Public Works and the Committee on Appropriations of 
    the Senate and at least 60 days elapse after the date of such 
    transmission.
        (3) To maintain any existing Pennsylvania Avenue Development 
    Corporation insurance programs.
        (4) To enter into and perform such leases, contracts, or other 
    transactions with any agency or instrumentality of the United 
    States, the several States, or the District of Columbia or with any 
    person, firm, association, or corporation as may be necessary to 
    carry out the responsibilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue 
    Development Corporation under the Federal Triangle Development Act 
    (40 U.S.C. 1101-1109).
        (5) To request the Council of the District of Columbia to close 
    any alleys necessary for the completion of development in Square 
    457.
        (6) To use all of the funds transferred from the Pennsylvania 
    Avenue Development Corporation or income earned on Pennsylvania 
    Avenue Development Corporation property to complete any pending 
    development projects.
    (d)(1)(A) On or before April 1, 1996, the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Development Corporation shall transfer all its right, title, and 
interest in and to the property described in subparagraph (B) to the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
    (B) The property referred to in subparagraph (A) is the property 
located within the Pennsylvania Avenue National Historic Site depicted 
on a map entitled ``Pennsylvania Avenue National Historic Park'', dated 
June 1, 1995, and numbered 840-82441, which shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park 
Service, Department of the Interior. The Pennsylvania Avenue National 
Historic Site includes the parks, plazas, sidewalks, special lighting, 
trees, sculpture, and memorials.
    (2) Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania Avenue and all other roadways from 
curb to curb shall remain with the District of Columbia but vendors 
shall not be permitted to occupy street space except during temporary 
special events.
    (3) The National Park Service shall be responsible for management, 
administration, maintenance, law enforcement, visitor services, 
resource protection, interpretation, and historic preservation at the 
Pennsylvania Avenue National Historic Site.
    (4) The National Park Service may enter into contracts, cooperative 
agreements, or other transactions with any agency or instrumentality of 
the United States, the several States, or the District of Columbia or 
with any person, firm, association, or corporation as may be deemed 
necessary or appropriate for the conduct of special events, festivals, 
concerts, or other art and cultural programs at the Pennsylvania Avenue 
National Historic Site or may establish a nonprofit foundation to 
solicit funds for such activities.
    (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the responsibility 
for ensuring that development or redevelopment in the Pennsylvania 
Avenue area is carried out in accordance with the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Development Corporation Plan--1974, as amended, is transferred to the 
National Capital Planning Commission or its successor commencing April 
1, 1996.
    (f) Savings Provisions.--
        (1) Regulations.--Any regulations prescribed by the Corporation 
    in connection with the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation 
    Act of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 871-885) and the Federal Triangle 
    Development Act (40 U.S.C. 1101-1109) shall continue in effect 
    until suspended by regulations prescribed by the Administrator of 
    the General Services Administration.
        (2) Existing rights, duties, and obligations not affected.--
    Subsection (a) shall not be construed as affecting the validity of 
    any right, duty, or obligation of the United States or any other 
    person arising under or pursuant to any contract, loan, or other 
    instrument or agreement which was in effect on the day before the 
    date of the transfers under subsection (a).
        (3) Continuation of suits.--No action or other proceeding 
    commenced by or against the Corporation in connection with 
    administration of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation 
    Act of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 871-885) and the Federal Triangle 
    Development Act (40 U.S.C. 1101-1109) shall abate by reason of 
    enactment and implementation of this Act, except that the General 
    Services Administration shall be substituted for the Corporation as 
    a party to any such action or proceeding.
    (g) Section 3(b) of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation 
Act of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 872(b)) is amended as follows:
    ``(b) The Corporation shall be dissolved on or before April 1, 
1996. Upon dissolution, assets, obligations, indebtedness, and all 
unobligated and unexpended balances of the Corporation shall be 
transferred in accordance with the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996.''.
    Sec. 314. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act or any other Act shall be obligated 
or expended for the operation or implementation of the Interior 
Columbia Basin Ecosystem Management Project (hereinafter ``Project'').
    (b)(1) From the funds appropriated to the Forest Service and Bureau 
of Land Management, a sum of $4,000,000 is made available for the 
Executive Steering Committee of the Project to publish, and submit to 
the Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, Appropriations, 
and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and Committees on 
Agriculture, Appropriations, and Resources of the House of 
Representatives, by April 30, 1996, an assessment on the National 
Forest System lands and lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management (hereinafter ``Federal lands'') within the area encompassed 
by the Project. The assessment shall be accompanied by draft 
Environmental Impact Statements that are not decisional and not subject 
to judicial review, contain a range of alternatives, without the 
identification of a preferred alternative or management 
recommendations, and provide a methodology for conducting any 
cumulative effects analysis required by section 102(2)(C) of the 
National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)) in the 
preparation of each amendment to a resource management plan pursuant to 
subsection (c)(2). The Executive Steering Committee shall release the 
required draft Environmental Impact Statements for a ninety day public 
comment period. A summary of the public comments received must 
accompany these documents upon its submission to Congress.
    (2) The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall contain the 
scientific information collected and analysis undertaken by the Project 
on landscape dynamics and forest and rangeland health conditions and 
the implications of such dynamics and conditions for forest and 
rangeland management, specifically the management of forest and 
rangeland vegetation structure, composition, density and related social 
and economic effects.
    (3) The assessment and draft Environmental Impact Statements 
required by paragraph (1) shall not: contain any material other than 
that required in paragraphs (1) and (2); be the subject of consultation 
or conferencing pursuant to section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536); or be accompanied by any record of decision or 
documentation pursuant to section 102(2) of the National Environmental 
Policy Act, except as specified in paragraph (1).
    (c)(1) From the funds appropriated to the Forest Service and the 
Bureau of Land Management, each Forest Supervisor of the Forest Service 
and District Manager of the Bureau of Land Management with 
responsibility for a national forest or unit of land administered by 
the Bureau of Land Management (hereinafter ``forest'') within the area 
encompassed by the Project shall--
        (A) review the resource management plan (hereinafter ``plan'') 
    for such forest, the scientific information and analysis in the 
    report prepared pursuant to subsection (b) which are applicable to 
    such plan, and any policy which is applicable to such plan upon the 
    date of enactment of this section (whether or not such policy has 
    been added to such plan by amendment), including any which is, or 
    is intended to be, of limited duration, and which the Project 
    addresses; and
        (B) based on such review, develop a modification of such 
    policy, or an alternative policy which serves the basic purpose of 
    such policy, to meet the specific conditions of such forest.
    (2) For each plan reviewed pursuant to paragraph (1), the Forest 
Supervisor or District Manager concerned shall prepare and adopt an 
amendment which: contains the modified or alternative policy developed 
pursuant to paragraph (1)(B); is directed solely to and affects only 
such plan; and addresses the specific conditions of the forest to which 
the plan applies and the relationship of the modified or alternative 
policy to such conditions. The Forest Supervisor or District Manager 
concerned shall consult at a minimum, with the Governor of the State, 
and the Commissioners of the county or counties, and affected tribal 
governments in which the forest to which the plan applies is situated 
during the review of the plan required by paragraph (1) and the 
preparation of an amendment to the plan required by this paragraph.
    (3) To the maximum extent practicable, each amendment prepared 
pursuant to paragraph (2) shall establish site-specific standards in 
lieu of imposing general standards applicable to multiple sites. Any 
amendment which would result in any major change in land use 
allocations within the plan or would reduce the likelihood of 
achievement of the goals and objectives of the plan (prior to any 
previous amendment incorporating in the plan any policy referred to in 
paragraph (1)(A)) shall be deemed a significant change, pursuant to 
section 6(f)(4) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(4)) or section 202 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), 
requiring a significant plan amendment or equivalent.
    (4) Each amendment prepared pursuant to paragraph (2) shall comply 
with any applicable requirements of section 102(2) of the National 
Environmental Policy Act, except that any cumulative effects analysis 
conducted in accordance with the methodology provided pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) shall be deemed to meet any requirement of such Act 
for such analysis and the scoping conducted by the Project prior to the 
date of enactment of this section shall substitute for any scoping 
otherwise required by such Act for such amendment, unless at the sole 
discretion of the Forest Supervisor or District Manager additional 
scoping is deemed necessary.
    (5) The review of each plan required by paragraph (1) shall be 
conducted, and the preparation and decision to approve an amendment to 
each plan pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be made, by the Forest 
Supervisor or District Manager, as the case may be, solely on: the 
basis of the review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), any 
consultation or conferencing pursuant to section 7 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 required by paragraph (6), any documentation 
required by section 102(2) of the National Environmental Policy Act, 
and any applicable guidance or other policy issued prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (6)(A) Any policy adopted in an amendment prepared pursuant to 
paragraph (2) which is a modification of or alternative to a policy 
referred to in paragraph (1)(A) and upon which consultation or 
conferencing has occurred pursuant to section 7 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973, shall not again be subject to the consultation or 
conferencing provisions of such section 7.
    (B) If required by such section 7, and not subject to subparagraph 
(A), the Forest Supervisor or District Manager concerned shall consult 
or conference separately on each amendment prepared pursuant to 
paragraph (2).
    (C) No further consultation, other than the consultation specified 
in subparagraph (B), shall be undertaken on the amendments prepared 
pursuant to paragraph (2), on any project or activity which is 
consistent with an applicable amendment, on any policy referred to in 
paragraph (1)(A), or on any portion of any plan related to such policy 
or the species to which such policy applies.
    (7) Each amendment prepared pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be 
adopted on or before October 31, 1996: Provided, That any amendment 
deemed a significant plan amendment, or equivalent, pursuant to 
paragraph (3) shall be adopted on or before March 31, 1997.
    (8) No policy referred to in paragraph (1)(A), or any provision of 
a plan or other planning document incorporating such policy, shall be 
effective in any forest subject to the Project on or after March 31, 
1997, or after an amendment to the plan which applies to such forest is 
adopted pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, whichever occurs 
first.
    (9) On the signing of a record of decision or equivalent document 
making an amendment for the Clearwater National Forest pursuant to 
paragraph (2), the requirement for revision referred to in the 
Stipulation of Dismissal dated September 13, 1993, applicable to the 
Clearwater National Forest is deemed to be satisfied, and the interim 
management direction provisions contained in the Stipulation of 
Dismissal shall be of no further effect with respect to the Clearwater 
National Forest.
    (d) The documents prepared under the authority of this section 
shall not be applied or used to regulate non-Federal lands.
    Sec. 315. Recreational Fee Demonstration Program.--(a) The 
Secretary of the Interior (acting through the Bureau of Land 
Management, the National Park Service and the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service) and the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the 
Forest Service) shall each implement a fee program to demonstrate the 
feasibility of user-generated cost recovery for the operation and 
maintenance of recreation areas or sites and habitat enhancement 
projects on Federal lands.
    (b) In carrying out the pilot program established pursuant to this 
section, the appropriate Secretary shall select from areas under the 
jurisdiction of each of the four agencies referred to in subsection (a) 
no fewer than 10, but as many as 50, areas, sites or projects for fee 
demonstration. For each such demonstration, the Secretary, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law--
        (1) shall charge and collect fees for admission to the area or 
    for the use of outdoor recreation sites, facilities, visitor 
    centers, equipment, and services by individuals and groups, or any 
    combination thereof;
        (2) shall establish fees under this section based upon a 
    variety of cost recovery and fair market valuation methods to 
    provide a broad basis for feasibility testing;
        (3) may contract, including provisions for reasonable 
    commissions, with any public or private entity to provide visitor 
    services, including reservations and information, and may accept 
    services of volunteers to collect fees charged pursuant to 
    paragraph (1);
        (4) may encourage private investment and partnerships to 
    enhance the delivery of quality customer services and resource 
    enhancement, and provide appropriate recognition to such partners 
    or investors; and
        (5) may assess a fine of not more than $100 for any violation 
    of the authority to collect fees for admission to the area or for 
    the use of outdoor recreation sites, facilities, visitor centers, 
    equipment, and services.
    (c)(1) Amounts collected at each fee demonstration area, site or 
project shall be distributed as follows:
        (A) Of the amount in excess of 104% of the amount collected in 
    fiscal year 1995, and thereafter annually adjusted upward by 4%, 
    eighty percent to a special account in the Treasury for use without 
    further appropriation, by the agency which administers the site, to 
    remain available for expenditures in accordance with paragraph 
    (2)(A).
        (B) Of the amount in excess of 104% of the amount collected in 
    fiscal year 1995, and thereafter annually adjusted upward by 4%, 
    twenty percent to a special account in the Treasury for use without 
    further appropriation, by the agency which administers the site, to 
    remain available for expenditure in accordance with paragraph 
    (2)(B).
        (C) For agencies other than the Fish and Wildlife Service, up 
    to 15% of current year collections of each agency, but not greater 
    than fee collection costs for that fiscal year, to remain available 
    for expenditure without further appropriation in accordance with 
    paragraph (2)(C).
        (D) For agencies other than the Fish and Wildlife Service, the 
    balance to the special account established pursuant to subparagraph 
    (A) of section 4(i)(1) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act, 
    as amended.
        (E) For the Fish and Wildlife Service, the balance shall be 
    distributed in accordance with section 201(c) of the Emergency 
    Wetlands Resources Act.
    (2)(A) Expenditures from site specific special funds shall be for 
further activities of the area, site or project from which funds are 
collected, and shall be accounted for separately.
    (B) Expenditures from agency specific special funds shall be for 
use on an agency-wide basis and shall be accounted for separately.
    (C) Expenditures from the fee collection support fund shall be used 
to cover fee collection costs in accordance with section 4(i)(1)(B) of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act, as amended: Provided, That 
funds unexpended and unobligated at the end of the fiscal year shall 
not be deposited into the special account established pursuant to 
section 4(i)(1)(A) of said Act and shall remain available for 
expenditure without further appropriation.
    (3) In order to increase the quality of the visitor experience at 
public recreational areas and enhance the protection of resources, 
amounts available for expenditure under this section may only be used 
for the area, site or project concerned, for backlogged repair and 
maintenance projects (including projects relating to health and safety) 
and for interpretation, signage, habitat or facility enhancement, 
resource preservation, annual operation (including fee collection), 
maintenance, and law enforcement relating to public use. The agencywide 
accounts may be used for the same purposes set forth in the preceding 
sentence, but for areas, sites or projects selected at the discretion 
of the respective agency head.
    (d)(1) Amounts collected under this section shall not be taken into 
account for the purposes of the Act of May 23, 1908 and the Act of 
March 1, 1911 (16 U.S.C. 500), the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 
501), the Act of July 22, 1937 (7 U.S.C. 1012), the Act of August 8, 
1937 and the Act of May 24, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 1181f et seq.), the Act of 
June 14, 1926 (43 U.S.C. 869-4), chapter 69 of title 31, United States 
Code, section 401 of the Act of June 15, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 715s), the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l), and any 
other provision of law relating to revenue allocation.
    (2) Fees charged pursuant to this section shall be in lieu of fees 
charged under any other provision of law.
    (e) The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall carry out this section without promulgating regulations.
    (f) The authority to collect fees under this section shall commence 
on October 1, 1995, and end on September 30, 1998. Funds in accounts 
established shall remain available through September 30, 2001.
    Sec. 316. Section 2001(a)(2) of Public Law 104-19 is amended as 
follows: Strike ``September 30, 1997'' and insert in lieu thereof 
``December 31, 1996''.
    Sec. 317. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any 
applicable Federal law relating to risk assessment, the protection of 
private property rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 318. None of the funds provided in this Act may be made 
available for the Mississippi River Corridor Heritage Commission.
    Sec. 319. Great Basin National Park.--Section 3 of the Great Basin 
National Park Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 410mm-1) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of subsection (e) by striking 
    ``shall'' and inserting ``may''; and
        (2) in subsection (f)--
            (A) by striking ``At the request'' and inserting the 
        following:
        ``(1) Exchanges.--At the request'';
            (B) by striking ``grazing permits'' and inserting ``grazing 
        permits and grazing leases''; and
            (C) by adding after ``Federal lands.'' the following:
        ``(2) Acquisition by donation.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire by donation 
        valid existing permits and grazing leases authorizing grazing 
        on land in the park.
            (B) Termination.--The Secretary shall terminate a grazing 
        permit or grazing lease acquired under subparagraph (A) so as 
        to end grazing previously authorized by the permit or lease.''.
    Sec. 320. None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Department of Energy in implementing the Codes and 
Standards Program to propose, issue, or prescribe any new or amended 
standard: Provided, That this section shall expire on September 30, 
1996: Provided further, That nothing in this section shall preclude the 
Federal Government from promulgating rules concerning energy efficiency 
standards for the construction of new federally-owned commercial and 
residential buildings.
    Sec. 321. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
(1) to demolish the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis 
Island; or (2) to prevent pedestrian use of such bridge, when it is 
made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that such pedestrian use is consistent with generally 
accepted safety standards.
    Sec. 322. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to accept 
or process applications for a patent for any mining or mill site claim 
located under the general mining laws.
    (b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned: (1) 
a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or before 
September 30, 1994, and (2) all requirements established under sections 
2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or 
lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the 
case may be, were fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Processing Schedule.--For those applications for patents 
pursuant to subsection (b) which were filed with the Secretary of the 
Interior, prior to September 30, 1994, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall--
        (1) Within three months of the enactment of this Act, file with 
    the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and the Committee 
    on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a plan 
    which details how the Department of the Interior will make a final 
    determination as to whether or not an applicant is entitled to a 
    patent under the general mining laws on at least 90 percent of such 
    applications within five years of the enactment of this Act and 
    file reports annually thereafter with the same committees detailing 
    actions taken by the Department of the Interior to carry out such 
    plan; and
        (2) Take such actions as may be necessary to carry out such 
    plan.
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Bureau of 
Land Managment to conduct a mineral examination of the mining claims or 
mill sites contained in a patent application as set forth in subsection 
(b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have the sole responsibility 
to choose and pay the third-party contractor in accordance with the 
standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
retention of third-party contractors.
    Sec. 323. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for the purposes of acquiring lands 
in the counties of Lawrence, Monroe, or Washington, Ohio, for the Wayne 
National Forest.
    Sec. 324. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or any 
other Act shall be expended or obligated to fund the activities of the 
Office of Forestry and Economic Development after December 31, 1995.
    Sec. 325. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or any 
other Act shall be expended or obligated to: (a) redefine the 
definition of an area in which a marbled murrelet is ``known to be 
nesting''; or (b) to modify the protocol for surveying for marbled 
murrelets in effect on July 21, 1995.
    Sec. 326. (a) Land Exchange.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to convey 
to the Boise Cascade Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the 
``Corporation''), a corporation formed under the statutes of the State 
of Delaware, with its principal place of business at Boise, Idaho, 
title to approximately seven acres of land, more or less, located in 
sections 14 and 23, township 36 north, range 37 east, Willamette 
Meridian, Stevens County, Washington, further identified in the records 
of the Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior, as Tract No. 
GC-19860, and to accept from the Corporation in exchange therefor, 
title to approximately one hundred and thirty-six acres of land located 
in section 19, township 37 north, range 38 east and section 33, 
township 38 north, range 37 east, Willamette Meridian, Stevens County, 
Washington, and further identified in the records of the Bureau of 
Reclamation, Department of the Interior, as Tract No. GC-19858 and 
Tract No. GC-19859, respectively.
    (b) Appraisal.--The properties so exchanged either shall be 
approximately equal in fair market value or if they are not 
approximately equal, shall be equalized by the payment of cash to the 
Corporation or to the Secretary as required or in the event the value 
of the Corporation's lands is greater, the acreage may be reduced so 
that the fair market value is approximately equal: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall order appraisals made of the fair market value of each 
tract of land included in the exchange without consideration for 
improvements thereon: Provided further, That any cash payment received 
by the Secretary shall be covered in the Reclamation Fund and credited 
to the Columbia Basin project.
    (c) Administrative Costs.--Costs of conducting the necessary land 
surveys, preparing the legal descriptions of the lands to be conveyed, 
performing the appraisals, and administrative costs incurred in 
completing the exchange shall be borne by the Corporation.
    (d) Liability for Hazardous Substances.--(1) The Secretary shall 
not acquire any lands under this Act if the Secretary determines that 
such lands, or any portion thereof, have become contaminated with 
hazardous substances (as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601)).
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
shall have no responsibility or liability with respect to any hazardous 
wastes or other substances placed on any of the lands covered by this 
Act after their transfer to the ownership of any party, but nothing in 
this Act shall be construed as either diminishing or increasing any 
responsibility or liability of the United States based on the condition 
of such lands on the date of their transfer to the ownership of another 
party. The Corporation shall indemnify the United States for 
liabilities arising under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601), and the Resource 
Conservation Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of 
this Act.
    Sec. 327. Timber Sales Pipeline Restoration Funds.--(a) The 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall each 
establish a Timber Sales Pipeline Restoration Fund (hereinafter 
``Agriculture Fund'' and ``Interior Fund'' or ``Funds''). Any revenues 
received from sales released under section 2001(k) of the fiscal year 
1995 Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Assistance and 
Rescissions Act, minus the funds necessary to make payments to States 
or local governments under other law concerning the distribution of 
revenues derived from the affected lands, which are in excess of 
$37,500,000 (hereinafter ``excess revenues'') shall be deposited into 
the Funds. The distribution of excess revenues between the Agriculture 
Fund and Interior Fund shall be calculated by multiplying the total of 
excess revenues times a fraction with a denominator of the total 
revenues received from all sales released under such section 2001(k) 
and numerators of the total revenues received from such sales on lands 
within the National Forest System and the total revenues received from 
such sales on lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, 
respectively: Provided, That revenues or portions thereof from sales 
released under such section 2001(k), minus the amounts necessary for 
State and local government payments and other necessary deposits, may 
be deposited into the Funds immediately upon receipt thereof and 
subsequently redistributed between the Funds or paid into the United 
States Treasury as miscellaneous receipts as may be required when the 
calculation of excess revenues is made.
    (b)(1) From the funds deposited into the Agriculture Fund and into 
the Interior Fund pursuant to subsection (a)--
        (A) seventy-five percent shall be available, without fiscal 
    year limitation or further appropriation, for preparation of timber 
    sales, other than salvage sales as defined in section 2001(a)(3) of 
    the fiscal year 1995 Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster 
    Assistance and Rescissions Act, which--
            (i) are situated on lands within the National Forest System 
        and lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        respectively; and
            (ii) are in addition to timber sales for which funds are 
        otherwise available in this Act or other appropriations Acts; 
        and
        (B) twenty-five percent shall be available, without fiscal year 
    limitation or further appropriation, to expend on the backlog of 
    recreation projects on lands within the National Forest System and 
    lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, respectively.
    (2) Expenditures under this subsection for preparation of timber 
sales may include expenditures for Forest Service activities within the 
forest land management budget line item and associated timber roads, 
and Bureau of Land Management activities within the Oregon and 
California grant lands account and the forestry management area 
account, as determined by the Secretary concerned.
    (c) Revenues received from any timber sale prepared under 
subsection (b) or under this subsection, minus the amounts necessary 
for State and local government payments and other necessary deposits, 
shall be deposited into the Fund from which funds were expended on such 
sale. Such deposited revenues shall be available for preparation of 
additional timber sales and completion of additional recreation 
projects in accordance with the requirements set forth in subsection 
(b).
    (d) The Secretary concerned shall terminate all payments into the 
Agriculture Fund or the Interior Fund, and pay any unobligated funds in 
the affected Fund into the United States Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts, whenever the Secretary concerned makes a finding, published 
in the Federal Register, that sales sufficient to achieve the total 
allowable sales quantity of the National Forest System for the Forest 
Service or the allowable sales level for the Oregon and California 
grant lands for the Bureau of Land Management, respectively, have been 
prepared.
    (e) Any timber sales prepared and recreation projects completed 
under this section shall comply with all applicable environmental and 
natural resource laws and regulations.
    (f) The Secretary concerned shall report annually to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the United States Senate and the House of 
Representatives on expenditures made from the Fund for timber sales and 
recreation projects, revenues received into the Fund from timber sales, 
and timber sale preparation and recreation project work undertaken 
during the previous year and projected for the next year under the 
Fund. Such information shall be provided for each Forest Service region 
and Bureau of Land Management State office.
    (g) The authority of this section shall terminate upon the 
termination of both Funds in accordance with the provisions of 
subsection (d).
    Sec. 328. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts:
        (a) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an individual 
    if such grant is awarded to such individual for a literature 
    fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or American Jazz Masters 
    Fellowship.
        (b) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure that 
    no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made to a State 
    or regional group, may be used to make a grant to any other 
    organization or individual to conduct activity independent of the 
    direct grant recipient. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit 
    payments made in exchange for goods and services.
        (c) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
    unless the application is specific to the contents of the season, 
    including identified programs and/or projects.
    Sec. 329. Delay in Implementation of the Administration's Rangeland 
Reform Program.--None of the funds made available under this or any 
other Act may be used to implement or enforce the final rule published 
by the Secretary of the Interior on February 22, 1995 (60 Fed. Reg. 
9894), making amendments to parts 4, 1780, and 4100 of title 43, Code 
of Federal Regulations, to take effect August 21, 1995, until November 
21, 1995. None of the funds made available under this or any other Act 
may be used to publish proposed or enforce final regulations governing 
the management of livestock grazing on lands administered by the Forest 
Service until November 21, 1995.
    Sec. 330. Section 1864 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``twenty'' and inserting 
        ``40'';
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``ten'' and inserting 
        ``20'';
            (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``if damage exceeding 
        $10,000 to the property of any individual results,'' and 
        inserting ``if damage to the property of any individual results 
        or if avoidance costs have been incurred exceeding $10,000, in 
        the aggregate,''; and
            (D) in paragraph (4), by striking ``ten'' and inserting 
        ``20'';
        (2) in subsection (c) by striking ``ten'' and inserting ``20'';
        (3) in subsection (d), by--
            (A) striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
            (B) striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) adding at the end the following:
        ``(4) the term `avoidance costs' means costs incurred by any 
    individual for the purpose of--
            ``(A) detecting a hazardous or injurious device; or
            ``(B) preventing death, serious bodily injury, bodily 
        injury, or property damage likely to result from the use of a 
        hazardous or injurious device in violation of subsection 
        (a).''; and
        (4) by adding at the end thereof the following:
    ``(e) Any person injured as the result of a violation of subsection 
(a) may commence a civil action on his own behalf against any person 
who is alleged to be in violation of subsection (a). The district 
courts shall have jurisdiction, without regard to the amount in 
controversy or the citizenship of the parties, in such civil actions. 
The court may award, in addition to monetary damages for any injury 
resulting from an alleged violation of subsection (a), costs of 
litigation, including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees, to 
any prevailing or substantially prevailing party, whenever the court 
determines such award is appropriate.''.
    Sec. 331. (a) Purposes of National Endowment for the Arts.--Section 
2 of the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 
1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 951), sets out findings and purposes for 
which the National Endowment for the Arts was established, among which 
are--
        (1) ``The arts and humanities belong to all the people of the 
    United States'';
        (2) ``The arts and humanities reflect the high place accorded 
    by the American people .  .  . to the fostering of mutual respect 
    for the diverse beliefs and values of all persons and groups'';
        (3) ``Public funding of the arts and humanities is subject to 
    the conditions that traditionally govern the use of public money 
    [and] such funding should contribute to public support and 
    confidence in the use of taxpayer funds''; and
        (4) ``Public funds provided by the Federal Government must 
    ultimately serve public purposes the Congress defines''.
    (b) Additional Congressional Findings.--Congress further finds and 
declares that the use of scarce funds, which have been taken from all 
taxpayers of the United States, to promote, disseminate, sponsor, or 
produce any material or performance that--
        (1) denigrates the religious objects or religious beliefs of 
    the adherents of a particular religion, or
        (2) depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexual 
    or excretory activities or organs,
is contrary to the express purposes of the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended.
    (c) Prohibition on Funding That Is Not Consistent With the Purposes 
of the Act.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
scarce funds which have been taken from all taxpayers of the United 
States and made available under this Act to the National Endowment for 
the Arts may be used to promote, disseminate, sponsor, or produce any 
material or performance that--
        (1) denigrates the religious objects or religious beliefs of 
    the adherents of a particular religion, or
        (2) depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexual 
    or excretory activities or organs,
and this prohibition shall be strictly applied without regard to the 
content or viewpoint of the material or performance.
    (d) Section Not To Affect Other Works.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to affect in any way the freedom of any artist or 
performer to create any material or performance using funds which have 
not been made available under this Act to the National Endowment for 
the Arts.
    Sec. 332. For purposes related to the closure of the Bureau of 
Mines, funds made available to the United States Geological Survey, the 
United States Bureau of Mines, and the Bureau of Land Management shall 
be available for transfer, with the approval of the Secretary of the 
Interior, among the following accounts: United States Geological 
Survey, Surveys, investigations, and research; Bureau of Mines, Mines 
and minerals; and Bureau of Land Management, Management of lands and 
resources. The Secretary of Energy shall reimburse the Secretary of the 
Interior, in an amount to be determined by the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, for the expenses of the transferred functions 
between October 1, 1995 and the effective date of the transfers of 
function. Such transfers shall be subject to the reprogramming 
guidelines of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 333. No funds appropriated under this or any other Act shall 
be used to review or modify sourcing areas previously approved under 
section 490(c)(3) of the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage 
Relief Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-382) or to enforce or implement 
Federal regulations 36 CFR part 223 promulgated on September 8, 1995. 
The regulations and interim rules in effect prior to September 8, 1995 
(36 CFR 223.48, 36 CFR 223.87, 36 CFR 223 Subpart D, 36 CFR 223 Subpart 
F, and 36 CFR 261.6) shall remain in effect. The Secretary of 
Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior shall not adopt any 
policies concerning Public Law 101-382 or existing regulations that 
would restrain domestic transportation or processing of timber from 
private lands or impose additional accountability requirements on any 
timber. The Secretary of Commerce shall extend until September 30, 
1996, the order issued under section 491(b)(2)(A) of Public Law 101-382 
and shall issue an order under section 491(b)(2)(B) of such law that 
will be effective October 1, 1996.
    Sec. 334. The National Park Service, in accordance with the 
Memorandum of Agreement between the United States National Park Service 
and the City of Vancouver dated November 4, 1994, shall permit general 
aviation on its portion of Pearson Field in Vancouver, Washington until 
the year 2022, during which time a plan and method for transitioning 
from general aviation aircraft to historic aircraft shall be completed; 
such transition to be accomplished by that date. This action shall not 
be construed to limit the authority of the Federal Aviation 
Administration over air traffic control or aviation activities at 
Pearson Field or limit operations and airspace of Portland 
International Airport.
    Sec. 335. The United States Forest Service approval of Alternative 
site 2 (ALT 2), issued on December 6, 1993, is hereby authorized and 
approved and shall be deemed to be consistent with, and permissible 
under, the terms of Public Law 100-696 (the Arizona-Idaho Conservation 
Act of 1988).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.