[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2466 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2466

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
   the sixth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine


                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management


                    management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $644,218,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $2,147,000 shall be available 
for assessment of the mineral potential of public lands in Alaska 
pursuant to section 1010 of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150); and of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be derived from the special 
receipt account established by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 
1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)); and of which $2,500,000 shall 
be available in fiscal year 2000 subject to a match by at least an 
equal amount by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, to such 
Foundation for cost-shared projects supporting conservation of Bureau 
lands and such funds shall be advanced to the Foundation as a lump sum 
grant without regard to when expenses are incurred; in addition, 
$33,529,000 for Mining Law Administration program operations, including 
the cost of administering the mining claim fee program; to remain 
available until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the 
Bureau and credited to this appropriation from annual mining claim fees 
so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at not more than 
$644,218,000, and $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, from 
communication site rental fees established by the Bureau for the cost 
of administering communication site activities, and of which 
$2,500,000, to remain available until expended, is for coalbed methane 
Applications for Permits to Drill in the Powder River Basin: Provided, 
That unless there is a written agreement in place between the coal 
mining operator and a gas producer, the funds available herein shall 
not be used to process or approve coalbed methane Applications for 
Permits to Drill for well sites that are located within an area, which 
as of the date of the coalbed methane Application for Permit to Drill, 
are covered by: (1) a coal lease; (2) a coal mining permit; or (3) an 
application for a coal mining lease: Provided further, That 
appropriations herein made shall not be available for the destruction 
of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and burros in the care of the Bureau 
or its contractors.


                         wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, suppression 
operations, emergency rehabilitation and hazardous fuels reduction by 
the Department of the Interior, $292,282,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $9,300,000 shall be for the renovation 
or construction of fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
from which funds were previously transferred for such purposes: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances of amounts previously 
appropriated to the ``Fire Protection'' and ``Emergency Department of 
the Interior Firefighting Fund'' may be transferred and merged with 
this appropriation: Provided further, That persons hired pursuant to 43 
U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging without cost from 
funds available from this appropriation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or office of 
the Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered pursuant to 
42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United States property, may be 
credited to the appropriation from which funds were expended to provide 
that protection, and are available without fiscal year limitation: 
Provided further, That not more than $58,000 shall be available to the 
Bureau of Land Management to reimburse Trinity County for expenses 
incurred as part of the July 2, 1999 Lowden Fire.


                     central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, including 
associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, pollutants, or 
contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the department pursuant to section 107 or 
113(f) of such Act, shall be credited to this account to be available 
until expended without further appropriation: Provided further, That 
such sums recovered from or paid by any party are not limited to 
monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other personal or 
real property, which may be retained, liquidated, or otherwise disposed 
of by the Secretary and which shall be credited to this account.


                               construction

    For construction of buildings, recreation facilities, roads, 
trails, and appurtenant facilities, $11,425,000, to remain available 
until expended.


                        payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 6901-6907), $135,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided, That 
no payment shall be made to otherwise eligible units of local 
government if the computed amount of the payment is less than $100.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, $15,500,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended.


                    oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$99,225,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 
percent of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the general fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of 
August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 876).

               forest ecosystems health and recovery fund


                    (revolving fund, special account)

    In addition to the purposes authorized in Public Law 102-381, funds 
made available in the Forest Ecosystem Health and Recovery Fund can be 
used for the purpose of planning, preparing, and monitoring salvage 
timber sales and forest ecosystem health and recovery activities such 
as release from competing vegetation and density control treatments. 
The Federal share of receipts (defined as the portion of salvage timber 
receipts not paid to the counties under 43 U.S.C. 1181f and 43 U.S.C. 
1181f-1 et seq., and Public Law 103-66) derived from treatments funded 
by this account shall be deposited into the Forest Ecosystem Health and 
Recovery Fund.


                            range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 
and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses.


                service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579, as amended, and Public Law 93-153, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 
U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant 
to that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action: Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.


                        miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau; 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities 
authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing 
either in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator 
is capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                           resource management

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, for scientific and economic studies, conservation, management, 
investigations, protection, and utilization of fishery and wildlife 
resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, maintenance of the herd 
of long-horned cattle on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge, general 
administration, and for the performance of other authorized functions 
related to such resources by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, 
cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and 
private entities, $716,046,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001, except as otherwise provided herein, of which $11,701,000 shall 
remain available until expended for operation and maintenance of 
fishery mitigation facilities constructed by the Corps of Engineers 
under the Lower Snake River Compensation Plan, authorized by the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1976, to compensate for loss of fishery 
resources from water development projects on the Lower Snake River, and 
of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be provided to local 
governments in southern California for planning associated with the 
Natural Communities Conservation Planning (NCCP) program and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That not less than 
$1,000,000 for high priority projects which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, 
as amended: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,232,000 shall be 
used for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of section 4 
of the Endangered Species Act, as amended, for species that are 
indigenous to the United States (except for processing petitions, 
developing and issuing proposed and final regulations, and taking any 
other steps to implement actions described in subsection (c)(2)(A), 
(c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii): Provided further, That of the amount 
available for law enforcement, up to $400,000 to remain available until 
expended, may at the discretion of the Secretary, be used for payment 
for information, rewards, or evidence concerning violations of laws 
administered by the Service, and miscellaneous and emergency expenses 
of enforcement activity, authorized or approved by the Secretary and to 
be accounted for solely on his certificate: Provided further, That of 
the amount provided for environmental contaminants, up to $1,000,000 
may remain available until expended for contaminant sample analyses: 
Provided further, That hereafter, all fines collected by the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service for violations of the Marine Mammal 
Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1362-1407) and implementing regulations shall 
be available to the Secretary, without further appropriation, to be 
used for the expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in 
administering activities for the protection and recovery of manatees, 
polar bears, sea otters, and walruses, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, sums provided by private 
entities for activities pursuant to reimbursable agreements shall be 
credited to the ``Resource Management'' account and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That, heretofore and 
hereafter, in carrying out work under reimbursable agreements with any 
State, local, or tribal government, the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service may, without regard to 31 U.S.C. 1341 and notwithstanding any 
other provision of law or regulation, record obligations against 
accounts receivable from such entities, and shall credit amounts 
received from such entities to this appropriation, such credit to occur 
within 90 days of the date of the original request by the Service for 
payment: Provided further, That all funds received by the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service from responsible parties, heretofore and 
hereafter, for site-specific damages to National Wildlife Refuge System 
lands resulting from the exercise of privately-owned oil and gas rights 
associated with such lands in the States of Louisiana and Texas (other 
than damages recoverable under the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (26 U.S.C. 4611 et seq.), the 
Oil Pollution Act (33 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.), or section 311 of the Clean 
Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321 et seq.)), shall be available to the 
Secretary, without further appropriation and until expended to: (1) 
complete damage assessments of the impacted site by the Secretary; (2) 
mitigate or restore the damaged resources; and (3) monitor and study 
the recovery of such damaged resources.


                               construction

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, 
and utilization of fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition 
of lands and interests therein; $54,583,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
single procurement for the construction of facilities at the Alaska 
Maritime National Wildlife Refuge may be issued which includes the full 
scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and the 
contract shall contain the clauses ``availability of funds'' found at 
48 CFR 52.232.18.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, $50,513,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.


             cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended, 
$16,000,000, to be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species 
Conservation Fund, and to remain available until expended.


                      national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $10,779,000.


                north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, as amended, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended.


               wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For necessary expenses of the Wildlife Conservation and 
Appreciation Fund, $800,000, to remain available until expended.


                 multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 4241-4245, 
and 1538), the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-
96; 16 U.S.C. 4261-4266), and the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act 
of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301-5306), $2,400,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds made available under this Act, Public 
Law 105-277, and Public Law 105-83 for rhinoceros, tiger, and Asian 
elephant conservation programs are exempt from any sanctions imposed 
against any country under section 102 of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2799aa-1).


               commercial salmon fishery capacity reduction

    For the Federal share of a capacity reduction program to repurchase 
Washington State Fraser River Sockeye commercial fishery licenses 
consistent with the implementation of the ``June 30, 1999, Agreement of 
the United States and Canada on the Treaty Between the Government of 
the United States and the Government of Canada Concerning Pacific 
Salmon, 1985'', $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, and to 
be provided in the form of a grant directly to the State of Washington 
Department of Fish and Wildlife.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 70 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 61 are for replacement only 
(including 36 for police-type use); repair of damage to public roads 
within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of the 
Service; options for the purchase of land at not to exceed $1 for each 
option; facilities incident to such public recreational uses on 
conservation areas as are consistent with their primary purpose; and 
the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other 
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Service and to which the 
United States has title, and which are used pursuant to law in 
connection with management and investigation of fish and wildlife 
resources: Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service 
may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership arrangements 
authorized by law, procure printing services from cooperators in 
connection with jointly produced publications for which the cooperators 
share at least one-half the cost of printing either in cash or services 
and the Service determines the cooperator is capable of meeting 
accepted quality standards: Provided further, That the Service may 
accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing aircraft: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior may not spend any of the funds appropriated in this Act 
for the purchase of lands or interests in lands to be used in the 
establishment of any new unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
unless the purchase is approved in advance by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the reprogramming 
procedures contained in Senate Report 105-56.

                         National Park Service


                  operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not less than $1,000,000 for 
high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which 
shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by 
16 U.S.C. 1706, $1,365,059,000, of which $8,800,000 is for research, 
planning and interagency coordination in support of land acquisition 
for Everglades restoration shall remain available until expended, and 
of which not to exceed $8,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
is to be derived from the special fee account established pursuant to 
title V, section 5201 of Public Law 100-203.


                   national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, 
statutory or contractual aid for other activities, and grant 
administration, not otherwise provided for, $53,899,000, of which 
$2,000,000 shall be available to carry out the Urban Park and 
Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), and of which 
$866,000 shall be available until expended for the Oklahoma City 
National Memorial Trust, notwithstanding 7(1) of Public Law 105-58: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National 
Park Service may hereafter recover all fees derived from providing 
necessary review services associated with historic preservation tax 
certification, and such funds shall be available until expended without 
further appropriation for the costs of such review services: Provided 
further, That no more than $150,000 may be used for overhead and 
program administrative expenses for the heritage partnership program.


                        historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the Historic Preservation 
Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), and the Omnibus Parks and 
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333), $45,212,000, 
to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001, of which $10,722,000 pursuant to section 507 
of Public Law 104-333 shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the total amount provided, $30,000,000 shall be for Save 
America's Treasures for priority preservation projects, including 
preservation of intellectual and cultural artifacts, preservation of 
historic structures and sites, and buildings to house cultural and 
historic resources and to provide educational opportunities: Provided 
further, That any individual Save America's Treasures grant shall be 
matched by non-Federal funds: Provided further, That individual 
projects shall only be eligible for one grant, and all projects to be 
funded shall be approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations prior to the commitment of grant funds: Provided 
further, That Save America's Treasures funds allocated for Federal 
projects shall be available by transfer to appropriate accounts of 
individual agencies, after approval of such projects by the Secretary 
of the Interior: Provided further, That none of the funds provided for 
Save America's Treasures may be used for administrative expenses, and 
staffing for the program shall be available from the existing staffing 
levels in the National Park Service.


                               construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, including the modifications authorized by section 104 of 
the Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, 
$224,493,000, to remain available until expended, of which $885,000 
shall be for realignment of the Denali National Park entrance road, of 
which not less than $2,000,000 shall be available for modifications to 
the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial: Provided, That $3,000,000 for 
the Wheeling National Heritage Area, $3,000,000 for the Lincoln 
Library, and $3,000,000 for the Southwest Pennsylvania Heritage Area 
shall be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund pursuant to 16 
U.S.C. 470a: Provided further, That the National Park Service will make 
available 37 percent, not to exceed $1,850,000, of the total cost of 
upgrading the Mariposa County, California municipal solid waste 
disposal system: Provided further, That Mariposa County will provide 
assurance that future use fees paid by the National Park Service will 
be reflective of the capital contribution made by the National Park 
Service.


                     land and water conservation fund

                               (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2000 by 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.


                  land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with the statutory authority applicable 
to the National Park Service, $120,700,000, to be derived from the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended, of 
which $21,000,000 is for the State assistance program including 
$1,000,000 to administer the State assistance program, and of which 
$10,000,000 may be for State grants for land acquisition in the State 
of Florida: Provided, That funds provided for State grants for land 
acquisition in the State of Florida are contingent upon the following: 
(1) a signed, binding agreement between all principal Federal and non-
Federal partners involved in the South Florida Restoration Initiative 
which provides specific volume, timing, location and duration of flow 
specifications and water quality measurements which will ensure 
adequate and appropriate water supply to all natural areas in southern 
Florida including all National Parks, Preserves, Wildlife Refuge lands 
and other areas to attain a restored ecosystem, and which will ensure 
that water supply systems in the region impacted by the Central and 
Southern Florida Project receive the appropriate quantity, 
distribution, quality and timing of water to be delivered from the 
operation of the Central and Southern Florida Project during, and 
subsequent to, the implementation of the Central and Southern Florida 
Project Comprehensive Review Study as set forth in section 528 of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1996; (2) the submission of detailed 
legislative language to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations that accomplishes this goal; and (3) submission of a 
complete prioritized non-Federal land acquisition project list: 
Provided further, That if all principal Federal and non-Federal 
partners in the South Florida Restoration Initiative do not sign the 
binding agreement described in the preceding proviso within 180 days of 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the funds provided herein for 
State grants for land acquisition in the State of Florida may be made 
available for that purpose upon the approval of both the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations pursuant to established 
reprogramming procedures: Provided further, That after the requirements 
under this heading have been met, from the funds made available for 
State grants for land acquisition in the State of Florida the Secretary 
may provide Federal assistance to the State of Florida for the 
acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, within the 
Everglades watershed (consisting of lands and waters within the 
boundaries of the South Florida Water Management District, Florida Bay 
and the Florida Keys, including the areas known as the Frog Pond, the 
Rocky Glades and the Eight and One-Half Square Mile Area) under terms 
and conditions deemed necessary by the Secretary to improve and restore 
the hydrological function of the Everglades watershed: Provided 
further, That funds provided under this heading to the State of Florida 
are contingent upon new matching non-Federal funds by the State and 
shall be subject to an agreement that the lands to be acquired will be 
managed in perpetuity for the restoration of the Everglades: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided herein $2,000,000 shall be made 
available by the National Park Service, pursuant to a grant agreement, 
to the State of Wisconsin so that the State may acquire land or 
interest in land for the Ice Age National Scenic Trail: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided herein $500,000 shall be made 
available by the National Park Service, pursuant to a grant agreement, 
to the State of Wisconsin so that the State may acquire land or 
interest in land for the North Country National Scenic Trail: Provided 
further, That funds provided under this heading to the State of 
Wisconsin are contingent upon matching funds by the State.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 384 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
298 shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 312 for 
police-type use, 12 buses, and 6 ambulances: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process 
any grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 
U.S.C. 1913: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to 
the National Park Service may be used to implement an agreement for the 
redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island until such agreement 
has been submitted to the Congress and shall not be implemented prior 
to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full and comprehensive report on the development of the southern 
end of Ellis Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon 
in support of the proposed project.
    None of the funds in this Act may be spent by the National Park 
Service for activities taken in direct response to the United Nations 
Biodiversity Convention.
    The National Park Service may distribute to operating units based 
on the safety record of each unit the costs of programs designed to 
improve workplace and employee safety, and to encourage employees 
receiving workers' compensation benefits pursuant to chapter 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, to return to appropriate positions for 
which they are medically able.

                    United States Geological Survey


                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and 
publish and disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; and 
to conduct inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and 
materials processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 
98g(1)) and related purposes as authorized by law and to publish and 
disseminate data; $823,833,000, of which $60,856,000 shall be available 
only for cooperation with States or municipalities for water resources 
investigations; and of which $16,400,000 shall remain available until 
expended for conducting inquiries into the economic conditions 
affecting mining and materials processing industries; and of which 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until expended for ongoing 
development of a mineral and geologic data base; and of which 
$137,604,000 shall be available until September 30, 2001 for the 
biological research activity and the operation of the Cooperative 
Research Units: Provided, That none of these funds provided for the 
biological research activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on 
private property, unless specifically authorized in writing by the 
property owner: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be used to pay more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping 
or water resources data collection and investigations carried on in 
cooperation with States and municipalities.


                        administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 53 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which 48 are for replacement only; reimbursement to the 
General Services Administration for security guard services; 
contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the making 
of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is administratively 
determined that such procedures are in the public interest; 
construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations and observation 
wells; expenses of the United States National Committee on Geology; and 
payment of compensation and expenses of persons on the rolls of the 
Survey duly appointed to represent the United States in the negotiation 
and administration of interstate compacts: Provided, That activities 
funded by appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the 
use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in 31 
U.S.C. 6302 et seq.: Provided further, That the United States 
Geological Survey may hereafter contract directly with individuals or 
indirectly with institutions or nonprofit organizations, without regard 
to 41 U.S.C. 5, for the temporary or intermittent services of students 
or recent graduates, who shall be considered employees for the purposes 
of chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
compensation for travel and work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, 
United States Code, relating to tort claims, but shall not be 
considered to be Federal employees for any other purposes.

                      Minerals Management Service


                 royalty and offshore minerals management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of 
royalties, as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations 
applicable to oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses 
and operating contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative 
agreements; including the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; $110,682,000, of which $84,569,000 
shall be available for royalty management activities; and an amount not 
to exceed $124,000,000, to be credited to this appropriation and to 
remain available until expended, from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, from rate 
increases to fee collections for Outer Continental Shelf administrative 
activities performed by the Minerals Management Service over and above 
the rates in effect on September 30, 1993, and from additional fees for 
Outer Continental Shelf administrative activities established after 
September 30, 1993: Provided, That to the extent $124,000,000 in 
additions to receipts are not realized from the sources of receipts 
stated above, the amount needed to reach $124,000,000 shall be credited 
to this appropriation from receipts resulting from rental rates for 
Outer Continental Shelf leases in effect before August 5, 1993: 
Provided further, That $3,000,000 for computer acquisitions shall 
remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be available for the payment of 
interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721(b) and (d): Provided 
further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable 
expenses related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup 
activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $15,000 under this heading shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Director of the Minerals Management Service concurred with the claimed 
refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or tribes, or to 
correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $198,000 shall be available to carry out the requirements 
of section 215(b)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999.


                            oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,118,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement


                        regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 10 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; $95,891,000: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, may use directly or 
through grants to States, moneys collected in fiscal year 2000 for 
civil penalties assessed under section 518 of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim lands 
adversely affected by coal mining practices after August 3, 1977, to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That appropriations 
for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement may 
provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal 
personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.


                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as amended, 
including the purchase of not more than 10 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $191,208,000, to be derived from receipts of the 
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available until expended; 
of which up to $8,000,000, to be derived from the Federal Expenses 
Share of the Fund, shall be for supplemental grants to States for the 
reclamation of abandoned sites with acid mine rock drainage from coal 
mines, and for associated activities, through the Appalachian Clean 
Streams Initiative: Provided, That grants to minimum program States 
will be $1,500,000 per State in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, 
That of the funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 may be used for the 
emergency program authorized by section 410 of Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, of which no more than 25 percent shall be used for emergency 
reclamation projects in any one State and funds for federally 
administered emergency reclamation projects under this proviso shall 
not exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year unobligated 
funds appropriated for the emergency reclamation program shall not be 
subject to the 25 percent limitation per State and may be used without 
fiscal year limitation for emergency projects: Provided further, That 
pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the Interior is 
authorized to use up to 20 percent from the recovery of the delinquent 
debt owed to the United States Government to pay for contracts to 
collect these debts: Provided further, That funds made available under 
title IV of Public Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal 
share of the cost of projects funded by the Federal Government for the 
purpose of environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement 
of acid mine drainage from abandoned mines: Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act: Provided further, That, in 
addition to the amount granted to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
under sections 402(g)(1) and 402(g)(5) of the Surface Mining Control 
and Reclamation Act (Act), an additional $300,000 will be specifically 
used for the purpose of conducting a demonstration project in 
accordance with section 401(c)(6) of the Act to determine the efficacy 
of improving water quality by removing metals from eligible waters 
polluted by acid mine drainage: Provided further, That the State of 
Maryland may set aside the greater of $1,000,000 or 10 percent of the 
total of the grants made available to the State under title IV of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, as amended (30 
U.S.C. 1231 et seq.), if the amount set aside is deposited in an acid 
mine drainage abatement and treatment fund established under a State 
law, pursuant to which law the amount (together with all interest 
earned on the amount) is expended by the State to undertake acid mine 
drainage abatement and treatment projects, except that before any 
amounts greater than 10 percent of its title IV grants are deposited in 
an acid mine drainage abatement and treatment fund, the State of 
Maryland must first complete all Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act priority one projects.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), as amended, the Education Amendments 
of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act 
of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), as amended, $1,637,444,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001 except as otherwise provided herein, 
of which not to exceed $93,684,000 shall be for welfare assistance 
payments and notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
not to exceed $115,229,000 shall be available for payments to tribes 
and tribal organizations for contract support costs associated with 
ongoing contracts, grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements 
entered into with the Bureau prior to or during fiscal year 2000, as 
authorized by such Act, except that tribes and tribal organizations may 
use their tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of 
ongoing contracts, grants, or compacts, or annual funding agreements 
and for unmet welfare assistance costs; and of which not to exceed 
$401,010,000 for school operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and 
other education programs shall become available on July 1, 2000, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001; and of which not to 
exceed $51,991,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation support, self-
governance grants, the Indian Self-Determination Fund, land records 
improvement, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not limited 
to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, and 25 U.S.C. 
2008, not to exceed $42,160,000 within and only from such amounts made 
available for school operations shall be available to tribes and tribal 
organizations for administrative cost grants associated with the 
operation of Bureau-funded schools: Provided further, That any forestry 
funds allocated to a tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 
2001, may be transferred during fiscal year 2002 to an Indian forest 
land assistance account established for the benefit of such tribe 
within the tribe's trust fund account: Provided further, That any such 
unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on September 30, 
2002.


                               construction

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
facilities, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; and preparation 
of lands for farming, and for construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 87-483, $146,884,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided further, That 
not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be used to 
cover the road program management costs of the Bureau: Provided 
further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams program 
pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a nonreimbursable 
basis: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2000, in implementing new 
construction or facilities improvement and repair project grants in 
excess of $100,000 that are provided to tribally controlled grant 
schools under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost 
Principles for Assistance Programs contained in 43 CFR part 12 as the 
regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such grants shall not 
be subject to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the Secretary and the grantee 
shall negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work to be 
performed: Provided further, That in considering applications, the 
Secretary shall consider whether the Indian tribe or tribal 
organization would be deficient in assuring that the construction 
projects conform to applicable building standards and codes and 
Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as required by 25 
U.S.C. 2005(a), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities: Provided further, That if the Secretary declines an 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 
25 U.S.C. 2505(f): Provided further, That any disputes between the 
Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant shall be subject to the 
disputes provision in 25 U.S.C. 2508(e): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, collections from the 
settlements between the United States and the Puyallup tribe concerning 
Chief Leschi school are made available for school construction in 
fiscal year 2000 and hereafter: Provided further, That in return for a 
quit claim deed to a school building on the Lac Courte Oreilles Ojibwe 
Indian Reservation, the Secretary shall pay to U.K. Development, LLC 
the amount of $375,000 from the funds made available under this 
heading.


  indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, $27,256,000, to remain available 
until expended; of which $25,260,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 101-618 and 102-575, and for implementation of 
other enacted water rights settlements; and of which $1,871,000 shall 
be available pursuant to Public Laws 99-264, 100-383, 103-402 and 100-
580.


                  indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $4,500,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $59,682,000.
     In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan programs, $508,000.


                        administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program account) shall be available for 
expenses of exhibits, and purchase of not to exceed 229 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which not to exceed 187 shall be for replacement only.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office operations or pooled 
overhead general administration (except facilities operations and 
maintenance) shall be available for tribal contracts, grants, compacts, 
or cooperative agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the 
provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-
Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for distribution to other 
tribes, this action shall not diminish the Federal Government's trust 
responsibility to that tribe, or the government-to-government 
relationship between the United States and that tribe, or that tribe's 
ability to access future appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau, other than the amounts provided herein for assistance to 
public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available to 
support the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the 
State of Alaska.
    Appropriations made available in this or any other Act for schools 
funded by the Bureau shall be available only to the schools in the 
Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996. No funds available to the 
Bureau shall be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau school system as 
of October 1, 1995. Funds made available under this Act may not be used 
to establish a charter school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term 
is defined in section 1146 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
U.S.C. 2026)), except that a charter school that is in existence on the 
date of the enactment of this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-
funded school before September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during 
that period, but only if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro-
rata share of funds to reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and 
personal property (including buses and vans), the funds of the charter 
school are kept separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau 
does not assume any obligation for charter school programs of the State 
in which the school is located if the charter school loses such 
funding. Employees of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a 
charter school and performing functions related to the charter school's 
operation and employees of a charter school shall not be treated as 
Federal employees for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United 
States Code (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''). Not 
later than June 15, 2000, the Secretary of the Interior shall evaluate 
the effectiveness of Bureau-funded schools sharing facilities with 
charter schools in the manner described in the preceding sentence and 
prepare and submit a report on the finding of that evaluation to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House.
    The Tate Topa Tribal School, the Black Mesa Community School, the 
Alamo Navajo School, and other Bureau-funded schools subject to the 
approval of the Secretary of the Interior, may use prior year school 
operations funds for the replacement or repair of Bureau of Indian 
Affairs education facilities which are in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 
2005(a) and which shall be eligible for operation and maintenance 
support to the same extent as other Bureau of Indian Affairs education 
facilities: Provided, That any additional construction costs for 
replacement or repair of such facilities begun with prior year funds 
shall be completed exclusively with non-Federal funds.

                           Department Offices

                            Insular Affairs


                        ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $67,171,000, of which: 
(1) $63,076,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, 
insular management controls, coral reef initiative activities, and 
brown tree snake control and research; grants to the judiciary in 
American Samoa for compensation and expenses, as authorized by law (48 
U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of American Samoa, in 
addition to current local revenues, for construction and support of 
governmental functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands 
as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as authorized 
by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands as 
authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $4,095,000 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular 
Affairs: Provided, That all financial transactions of the territorial 
and local governments herein provided for, including such transactions 
of all agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such 
governments, may be audited by the General Accounting Office, at its 
discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant 
funding shall be provided according to those terms of the Agreement of 
the Special Representatives on Future United States Financial 
Assistance for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 104-
134: Provided further, That Public Law 94-241, as amended, is further 
amended: (1) in section 4(b) by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
``1999'' and by striking the comma after ``$11,000,000 annually'' and 
inserting the following: ``and for fiscal year 2000, payments to the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,580,000, but 
shall return to the level of $11,000,000 annually for fiscal years 2001 
and 2002. In fiscal year 2003, the payment to the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,420,000. Such payments shall be''; 
and (2) in section (4)(c) by adding a new subsection as follows: ``(4) 
for fiscal year 2000, $5,420,000 shall be provided to the Virgin 
Islands for correctional facilities and other projects mandated by 
Federal law.'': Provided further, That of the amounts provided for 
technical assistance, sufficient funding shall be made available for a 
grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, That the funds for 
the program of operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated 
to institutionalize routine operations and maintenance improvement of 
capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of 
Micronesia through assessments of long-range operations maintenance 
needs, improved capability of local operations and maintenance 
institutions and agencies (including management and vocational 
education training), and project-specific maintenance (with territorial 
participation and cost sharing to be determined by the Secretary based 
on the individual territory's commitment to timely maintenance of its 
capital assets): Provided further, That any appropriation for disaster 
assistance under this heading in this Act or previous appropriations 
Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds for the purpose of 
hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5170c).


                       compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compact of 
Free Association, and for economic assistance and necessary expenses 
for the Republic of Palau as provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 
232, and 233 of the Compact of Free Association, $20,545,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by Public Law 99-239 and Public 
Law 99-658.

                        Departmental Management


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, $62,864,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 may be for 
official reception and representation expenses and of which up to 
$1,000,000 shall be available for workers compensation payments and 
unemployment compensation payments associated with the orderly closure 
of the United States Bureau of Mines.

                        Office of the Solicitor


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $40,196,000.

                      Office of Inspector General


                          Salaries and Expenses

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$26,086,000.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians


                          federal trust programs

    For operation of trust programs for Indians by direct expenditure, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, $90,025,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds for trust 
management improvements may be transferred, as needed, to the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account and to the 
Departmental Management ``Salaries and Expenses'' account: Provided 
further, That funds made available to Tribes and Tribal organizations 
through contracts or grants obligated during fiscal year 2000, as 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 
et seq.), shall remain available until expended by the contractor or 
grantee: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the statute of limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, 
including any claim in litigation pending on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, concerning losses to or mismanagement of trust funds, 
until the affected tribe or individual Indian has been furnished with 
an accounting of such funds from which the beneficiary can determine 
whether there has been a loss: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be required to 
provide a quarterly statement of performance for any Indian trust 
account that has not had activity for at least 18 months and has a 
balance of $1.00 or less: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
issue an annual account statement and maintain a record of any such 
accounts and shall permit the balance in each such account to be 
withdrawn upon the express written request of the account holder.


                     indian land consolidation pilot

                        Indian Land Consolidation

    For implementation of a pilot program for consolidation of 
fractional interests in Indian lands by direct expenditure or 
cooperative agreement, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended 
and which shall be transferred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, of 
which not to exceed $500,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses: Provided, That the Secretary may enter into a cooperative 
agreement, which shall not be subject to Public Law 93-638, as amended, 
with a tribe having jurisdiction over the pilot reservation to 
implement the program to acquire fractional interests on behalf of such 
tribe: Provided further, That the Secretary may develop a reservation-
wide system for establishing the fair market value of various types of 
lands and improvements to govern the amounts offered for acquisition of 
fractional interests: Provided further, That acquisitions shall be 
limited to one or more pilot reservations as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That funds shall be available for 
acquisition of fractional interest in trust or restricted lands with 
the consent of its owners and at fair market value, and the Secretary 
shall hold in trust for such tribe all interests acquired pursuant to 
this pilot program: Provided further, That all proceeds from any lease, 
resource sale contract, right-of-way or other transaction derived from 
the fractional interest shall be credited to this appropriation, and 
remain available until expended, until the purchase price paid by the 
Secretary under this appropriation has been recovered from such 
proceeds: Provided further, That once the purchase price has been 
recovered, all subsequent proceeds shall be managed by the Secretary 
for the benefit of the applicable tribe or paid directly to the tribe.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration


                 natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-380), and Public Law 101-337, $5,400,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                        administrative provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 15 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in the ``Departmental Management'', 
``Office of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; 
for contingency planning subsequent to actual oil spills; for response 
and natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual oil 
spills; for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 
1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation 
projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, 
from any no year funds available to the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not 
carrying out the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: 
Provided, That appropriations made in this title for fire suppression 
purposes shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
during the preceding fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other 
Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other 
equipment in connection with their use for fire suppression purposes, 
such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently available 
at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, That for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities, no funds shall be 
made available under this authority until funds appropriated to 
``Wildland Fire Management'' shall have been exhausted: Provided 
further, That all funds used pursuant to this section are hereby 
designated by Congress to be ``emergency requirements'' pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation which must be requested as promptly as possible: Provided 
further, That such replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a 
pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the 
Interior for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. 
Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued for services or rentals 
for periods not in excess of 12 months beginning at any time during the 
fiscal year.
    Sec. 107. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of northern, 
central, and southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 108. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore oil and natural 
gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities, on lands within the 
North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 109. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and natural gas 
preleasing, leasing and related activities in the eastern Gulf of 
Mexico planning area for any lands located outside Sale 181, as 
identified in the final Outer Continental Shelf 5-Year Oil and Gas 
Leasing Program, 1997-2002.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct oil and natural gas preleasing, 
leasing and related activities in the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic 
planning areas.
    Sec. 111. Advance payments made under this title to Indian tribes, 
tribal organizations, and tribal consortia pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or 
the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) 
may be invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or consortium 
before such funds are expended for the purposes of the grant, compact, 
or annual funding agreement so long as such funds are--
        (1) invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or 
    consortium only in obligations of the United States, or in 
    obligations or securities that are guaranteed or insured by the 
    United States, or mutual (or other) funds registered with the 
    Securities and Exchange Commission and which only invest in 
    obligations of the United States or securities that are guaranteed 
    or insured by the United States; or
        (2) deposited only into accounts that are insured by an agency 
    or instrumentality of the United States, or are fully 
    collateralized to ensure protection of the funds, even in the event 
    of a bank failure.
    Sec. 112. (a) Employees of Helium Operations, Bureau of Land 
Management, entitled to severance pay under 5 U.S.C. 5595, may apply 
for, and the Secretary of the Interior may pay, the total amount of the 
severance pay to the employee in a lump sum. Employees paid severance 
pay in a lump sum and subsequently reemployed by the Federal Government 
shall be subject to the repayment provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5595(i)(2) and 
(3), except that any repayment shall be made to the Helium Fund.
    (b) Helium Operations employees who elect to continue health 
benefits after separation shall be liable for not more than the 
required employee contribution under 5 U.S.C. 8905a(d)(1)(A). The 
Helium Fund shall pay for 18 months the remaining portion of required 
contributions.
    (c) The Secretary of the Interior may provide for training to 
assist Helium Operations employees in the transition to other Federal 
or private sector jobs during the facility shut-down and disposition 
process and for up to 12 months following separation from Federal 
employment, including retraining and relocation incentives on the same 
terms and conditions as authorized for employees of the Department of 
Defense in section 348 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1995.
    (d) For purposes of the annual leave restoration provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 6304(d)(1)(B), the cessation of helium production and sales, and 
other related Helium Program activities shall be deemed to create an 
exigency of public business under, and annual leave that is lost during 
leave years 1997 through 2001 because of 5 U.S.C. 6304 (regardless of 
whether such leave was scheduled in advance) shall be restored to the 
employee and shall be credited and available in accordance with 5 
U.S.C. 6304(d)(2). Annual leave so restored and remaining unused upon 
the transfer of a Helium Program employee to a position of the 
executive branch outside of the Helium Program shall be liquidated by 
payment to the employee of a lump sum from the Helium Fund for such 
leave.
    (e) Benefits under this section shall be paid from the Helium Fund 
in accordance with section 4(c)(4) of the Helium Privatization Act of 
1996. Funds may be made available to Helium Program employees who are 
or will be separated before October 1, 2002 because of the cessation of 
helium production and sales and other related activities. Retraining 
benefits, including retraining and relocation incentives, may be paid 
for retraining commencing on or before September 30, 2002.
    (f) This section shall remain in effect through fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
hereafter funds available to the Department of the Interior for Indian 
self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs 
may be expended only for costs directly attributable to contracts, 
grants and compacts pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 and hereafter funds appropriated in this title shall not be 
available for any contract support costs or indirect costs associated 
with any contract, grant, cooperative agreement, self-governance 
compact or funding agreement entered into between an Indian tribe or 
tribal organization and any entity other than an agency of the 
Department of the Interior.
    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the National 
Park Service shall not develop or implement a reduced entrance fee 
program to accommodate non-local travel through a unit. The Secretary 
may provide for and regulate local non-recreational passage through 
units of the National Park System, allowing each unit to develop 
guidelines and permits for such activity appropriate to that unit.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2000 and thereafter, the Secretary is authorized to permit 
persons, firms or organizations engaged in commercial, cultural, 
educational, or recreational activities (as defined in section 612a of 
title 40, United States Code) not currently occupying such space to use 
courtyards, auditoriums, meeting rooms, and other space of the main and 
south Interior building complex, Washington, D.C., the maintenance, 
operation, and protection of which has been delegated to the Secretary 
from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, and to assess 
reasonable charges therefore, subject to such procedures as the 
Secretary deems appropriate for such uses. Charges may be for the 
space, utilities, maintenance, repair, and other services. Charges for 
such space and services may be at rates equivalent to the prevailing 
commercial rate for comparable space and services devoted to a similar 
purpose in the vicinity of the main and south Interior building 
complex, Washington, D.C. for which charges are being assessed. The 
Secretary may without further appropriation hold, administer, and use 
such proceeds within the Departmental Management Working Capital Fund 
to offset the operation of the buildings under his jurisdiction, 
whether delegated or otherwise, and for related purposes, until 
expended.
    Sec. 116. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Steel 
Industry American Heritage Area, authorized by Public Law 104-333, is 
hereby renamed the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area.
    Sec. 117. (a) In this section--
        (1) the term ``Huron Cemetery'' means the lands that form the 
    cemetery that is popularly known as the Huron Cemetery, located in 
    Kansas City, Kansas, as described in subsection (b)(3); and
        (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior.
    (b)(1) The Secretary shall take such action as may be necessary to 
ensure that the lands comprising the Huron Cemetery (as described in 
paragraph (3)) are used only in accordance with this subsection.
    (2) The lands of the Huron Cemetery shall be used only--
        (A) for religious and cultural uses that are compatible with 
    the use of the lands as a cemetery; and
        (B) as a burial ground.
    (3) The description of the lands of the Huron Cemetery is as 
follows:
    The tract of land in the NW quarter of sec. 10, T. 11 S., R. 25 E., 
of the sixth principal meridian, in Wyandotte County, Kansas (as 
surveyed and marked on the ground on August 15, 1888, by William 
Millor, Civil Engineer and Surveyor), described as follows:
        ``Commencing on the Northwest corner of the Northwest Quarter 
    of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 10;
        ``Thence South 28 poles to the `true point of beginning';
        ``Thence South 71 degrees East 10 poles and 18 links;
        ``Thence South 18 degrees and 30 minutes West 28 poles;
        ``Thence West 11 and one-half poles;
        ``Thence North 19 degrees 15 minutes East 31 poles and 15 feet 
    to the `true point of beginning', containing 2 acres or more.''.
    Sec. 118. Refunds or rebates received on an on-going basis from a 
credit card services provider under the Department of the Interior's 
charge card programs may be deposited to and retained without fiscal 
year limitation in the Departmental Working Capital Fund established 
under 43 U.S.C. 1467 and used to fund management initiatives of general 
benefit to the Department of the Interior's bureaus and offices as 
determined by the Secretary or his designee.
    Sec. 119. Appropriations made in this title under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Office of Special Trustee for American 
Indians and any available unobligated balances from prior 
appropriations Acts made under the same headings, shall be available 
for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management activities 
pursuant to the Trust Management Improvement Project High Level 
Implementation Plan.
    Sec. 120. All properties administered by the National Park Service 
at Fort Baker, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, and leases, 
concessions, permits and other agreements associated with those 
properties, hereafter shall be exempt from all taxes and special 
assessments, except sales tax, by the State of California and its 
political subdivisions, including the County of Marin and the City of 
Sausalito. Such areas of Fort Baker shall remain under exclusive 
Federal jurisdiction.
    Sec. 121. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the Secretary of 
the Interior is authorized to negotiate and enter into agreements and 
leases, without regard to section 321 of chapter 314 of the Act of June 
30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b), with any person, firm, association, 
organization, corporation, or governmental entity for all or part of 
the property within Fort Baker administered by the Secretary as part of 
Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The proceeds of the agreements or 
leases shall be retained by the Secretary and such proceeds shall be 
available, without future appropriation, for the preservation, 
restoration, operation, maintenance and interpretation and related 
expenses incurred with respect to Fort Baker properties.
    Sec. 122. Where any Federal lands included in the boundary of Lake 
Roosevelt National Recreational Area for grazing purposes, pursuant to 
a permit issued by the National Park Service, the person or persons so 
utilizing such lands shall be entitled to renew said permit. The 
National Park Service is further directed to manage the Lake Roosevelt 
National Recreational Area subject to grazing use in a manner that will 
protect the recreational, natural (including water quality) and 
cultural resources of the Lake Roosevelt National Recreational Area.
    Sec. 123. Grazing permits and leases that expire or are 
transferred, shall be renewed on the same terms and conditions as 
contained in the expiring permits or leases until the Secretary of the 
Interior completes processing these permits and leases in compliance 
with all applicable laws and regulations, at which time such permit or 
lease may be canceled, suspended or modified, in whole or in part, to 
meet the requirements of such applicable laws and regulations. Nothing 
in this language shall be deemed to alter the Secretary's statutory 
authority.
    Sec. 124. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purpose of reducing the backlog of Indian probate cases in the 
Department of the Interior, the hearing requirements of chapter 10 of 
title 25, United States Code, are deemed satisfied by a proceeding 
conducted by an Indian probate judge, appointed by the Secretary 
without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
governing the appointments in the competitive service, for such period 
of time as the Secretary determines necessary: Provided, That the 
Secretary may only appoint such Indian probate judges if, by January 1, 
2000, the Secretary is unable to secure the services of at least 10 
qualified Administrative Law Judges on a temporary basis from other 
agencies and/or through appointing retired Administrative Law Judges: 
Provided further, That the basic pay of an Indian probate judge so 
appointed may be fixed by the Secretary without regard to the 
provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
United States Code, governing the classification and pay of General 
Schedule employees, except that no such Indian probate judge may be 
paid at a level which exceeds the maximum rate payable for the highest 
grade of the General Schedule, including locality pay.
    Sec. 125. (a) Loan To Be Granted.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
(hereinafter the ``Secretary''), in consultation with the Secretary of 
the Treasury, shall make available to the Government of American Samoa 
(hereinafter ``ASG''), the benefits of a loan in the amount of 
$18,600,000 bearing interest at a rate equal to the United States 
Treasury cost of borrowing for obligations of similar duration. 
Repayment of the loan shall be secured and accomplished pursuant to 
this section with funds, as they become due and payable to ASG from the 
Escrow Account established under the terms and conditions of the 
Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (and the subsequent Enforcing 
Consent Decree) (hereinafter collectively referred to as ``the 
Agreement'') entered into by the parties November 23, 1998, and 
judgment granted by the High Court of American Samoa on January 5, 1999 
(Civil Action 119-98, American Samoa Government v. Philip Morris 
Tobacco Co., et. al.).
    (b) Conditions Regarding Loan Proceeds.--Except as provided under 
subsection (e), no proceeds of the loan described in this section shall 
become available until ASG--
        (1) has enacted legislation, or has taken such other or 
    additional official action as the Secretary may deem satisfactory 
    to secure and ensure repayment of the loan, irrevocably 
    transferring and assigning for payment to the Department of the 
    Interior (or to the Department of the Treasury, upon agreement 
    between the Secretaries of such departments) all amounts due and 
    payable to ASG under the terms and conditions of the Agreement for 
    a period of 26 years with the first payment beginning in 2000, such 
    repayment to be further secured by a pledge of the full faith and 
    credit of ASG;
        (2) has entered into an agreement or memorandum of 
    understanding described in subsection (c) with the Secretary 
    identifying with specificity the manner in which approximately 
    $14,300,000 of the loan proceeds will be used to pay debts of ASG 
    incurred prior to April 15, 1999; and
        (3) has provided to the Secretary an initial plan of fiscal and 
    managerial reform as described in subsection (d) designed to bring 
    the ASG's annual operating expenses into balance with projected 
    revenues for the years 2003 and beyond, and identifying the manner 
    in which approximately $4,300,000 of the loan proceeds will be 
    utilized to facilitate implementation of the plan.
    (c) Procedure and Priorities for Debt Payments.--
        (1) In structuring the agreement or memorandum of understanding 
    identified in subsection (b)(2), the ASG and the Secretary shall 
    include provisions, which create priorities for the payment of 
    creditors in the following order--
            (A) debts incurred for services, supplies, facilities, 
        equipment and materials directly connected with the provision 
        of health, safety and welfare functions for the benefit of the 
        general population of American Samoa (including, but not 
        limited to, health care, fire and police protection, 
        educational programs grades K-12, and utility services for 
        facilities belonging to or utilized by ASG and its agencies), 
        wherein the creditor agrees to compromise and settle the 
        existing debt for a payment not exceeding 75 percent of the 
        amount owed, shall be given the highest priority for payment 
        from the loan proceeds under this section;
            (B) debts not exceeding a total amount of $200,000 owed to 
        a single provider and incurred for any legitimate governmental 
        purpose for the benefit of the general population of American 
        Samoa, wherein the creditor agrees to compromise and settle the 
        existing debt for a payment not exceeding 70 percent of the 
        amount owed, shall be given the second highest priority for 
        payment from the loan proceeds under this section;
            (C) debts exceeding a total amount of $200,000 owed to a 
        single provider and incurred for any legitimate governmental 
        purpose for the benefit of the general population of American 
        Samoa, wherein the creditor agrees to compromise and settle the 
        existing debt for a payment not exceeding 65 percent of the 
        amount owed, shall be given the third highest priority for 
        payment from the loan proceeds under this section;
            (D) other debts regardless of total amount owed or purpose 
        for which incurred, wherein the creditor agrees to compromise 
        and settle the existing debt for a payment not exceeding 60 
        percent of the amount owed, shall be given the fourth highest 
        priority for payment from the loan proceeds under this section;
            (E) debts described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) 
        of this paragraph, wherein the creditor declines to compromise 
        and settle the debt for the percentage of the amount owed as 
        specified under the applicable subparagraph, shall be given the 
        lowest priority for payment from the loan proceeds under this 
        section.
        (2) The agreement described in subsection (b)(2) shall also 
    generally provide a framework whereby the Governor of American 
    Samoa shall, from time-to-time, be required to give 10 business 
    days notice to the Secretary that ASG will make payment in 
    accordance with this section to specified creditors and the amount 
    which will be paid to each of such creditors. Upon issuance of 
    payments in accordance with the notice, the Governor shall 
    immediately confirm such payments to the Secretary, and the 
    Secretary shall within three business days following receipt of 
    such confirmation transfer from the loan proceeds an amount 
    sufficient to reimburse ASG for the payments made to creditors.
        (3) The agreement may contain such other provisions as are 
    mutually agreeable, and which are calculated to simplify and 
    expedite the payment of existing debt under this section and ensure 
    the greatest level of compromise and settlement with creditors in 
    order to maximize the retirement of ASG debt.
    (d) Fiscal and Managerial Reform Program.--
        (1) The initial plan of fiscal and managerial reform, designed 
    to bring ASG's annual operating expenses into balance with 
    projected revenues for the years 2003 and beyond as required under 
    subsection (b)(3), should identify specific measures which will be 
    implemented by ASG to accomplish such goal, the anticipated 
    reduction in government operating expense which will be achieved by 
    each measure, and should include a timetable for attainment of each 
    reform measure identified therein.
        (2) The initial plan should also identify with specificity the 
    manner in which approximately $4,300,000 of the loan proceeds will 
    be utilized to assist in meeting the reform plan's targets within 
    the timetable specified through the use of incentives for early 
    retirement, severance pay packages, outsourcing services, or any 
    other expenditures for program elements reasonably calculated to 
    result in reduced future operating expenses for ASG on a long term 
    basis.
        (3) Upon receipt of the initial plan, the Secretary shall 
    consult with the Governor of American Samoa, and shall make any 
    recommendations deemed reasonable and prudent to ensure the goals 
    of reform are achieved. The reform plan shall contain objective 
    criteria that can be documented by a competent third party, 
    mutually agreeable to the Governor and the Secretary. The plan 
    shall include specific targets for reducing the amounts of ASG 
    local revenues expended on government payroll and overhead 
    (including contracts for consulting services), and may include 
    provisions which allow modest increases in support of the LBJ 
    Hospital Authority reasonably calculated to assist the Authority 
    implement reforms which will lead to an independent audit 
    indicating annual expenditures at or below annual Authority 
    receipts.
        (4) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the 
    Governor similar to that specified in subsection (c)(2) of this 
    section, enabling ASG to make payments as contemplated in the 
    reform plan and then to receive reimbursement from the Secretary 
    out of the portion of loan proceeds allocated for the 
    implementation of fiscal reforms.
        (5) Within 60 days following receipt of the initial plan, the 
    Secretary shall approve an interim final plan reasonably calculated 
    to make substantial progress toward overall reform. The Secretary 
    shall provide copies of the plan, and any subsequent modifications, 
    to the House Committee on Resources, the House Committee on 
    Appropriations Subcommittee on the Department of the Interior and 
    Related Agencies, the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural 
    Resources, and the Senate Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee 
    on the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies.
        (6) From time-to-time as deemed necessary, the Secretary shall 
    consult further with the Governor of American Samoa, and shall 
    approve such mutually agreeable modifications to the interim final 
    plan as circumstances warrant in order to achieve the overall goals 
    of ASG fiscal and managerial reforms.
    (e) Release of Loan Proceeds.--From the total proceeds of the loan 
described in this section, the Secretary shall make available--
        (1) upon compliance by ASG with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of 
    this section and in accordance with subsection (c), approximately 
    $14,300,000 in reimbursements as requested from time-to-time by the 
    Governor for payments to creditors;
        (2) upon compliance by ASG with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of 
    this section and in accordance with subsection (d), approximately 
    $4,300,000 in reimbursements as requested from time-to-time by the 
    Governor for payments associated with implementation of the interim 
    final reform plan; and
        (3) notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, 
    at any time the Secretary and the Governor mutually determine that 
    the amount necessary to fund payments under paragraph (2) will 
    total less than $4,300,000 then the Secretary may approve the 
    amount of any unused portion of such sum for additional payments 
    against ASG debt under paragraph (1).
    (f) Exception.-- Proceeds from the loan under this section shall be 
used solely for the purposes of debt payments and reform plan 
implementation as specified herein, except that the Secretary may 
provide an amount equal to not more than 2 percent of the total loan 
proceeds for the purpose of retaining the services of an individual or 
business entity to provide direct assistance and management expertise 
in carrying out the purposes of this section. Such individual or 
business entity shall be mutually agreeable to the Governor and the 
Secretary, may not be a current or former employee of, or contractor 
for, and may not be a creditor of ASG. Notwithstanding the preceding 
two sentences, the Governor and the Secretary may agree to also retain 
the services of any semi-autonomous agency of ASG which has established 
a record of sound management and fiscal responsibility, as evidenced by 
audited financial reports for at least three of the past 5 years, to 
coordinate with and assist any individual or entity retained under this 
subsection.
    (g) Construction.--The provisions of this section are expressly 
applicable only to the utilization of proceeds from the loan described 
in this section, and nothing herein shall be construed to relieve ASG 
from any lawful debt or obligation except to the extent a creditor 
shall voluntarily enter into an arms length agreement to compromise and 
settle outstanding amounts under subsection (c).
    (h) Termination.--The payment of debt and the payments associated 
with implementation of the interim final reform plan shall be completed 
not later than October 1, 2003. On such date, any unused loan proceeds 
totaling $1,000,000 or less shall be transferred by the Secretary 
directly to ASG. If the amount of unused loan proceeds exceeds 
$1,000,000, then such amount shall be credited to the total of loan 
repayments specified in paragraph (b)(1). With approval of the 
Secretary, ASG may designate additional payments from time-to-time from 
funds available from any source, without regard to the original purpose 
of such funds.
    Sec. 126. The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and in 
consultation with the Director of the National Park Service, shall 
undertake the necessary activities to designate Midway Atoll as a 
National Memorial to the Battle of Midway. In pursuing such a 
designation the Secretary shall consult with organizations with an 
interest in Midway Atoll. The Secretary shall consult on a regular 
basis with such organizations, including the International Midway 
Memorial Foundation, Inc. on the management of the National Memorial.
    Sec. 127. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal Priority 
Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate tribal 
funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, unmet 
needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in 
Tribal Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 
2000. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas 
or inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation 
does not apply.
    Sec. 128. None of the Funds provided in this Act shall be available 
to the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Department of the Interior to 
transfer land into trust status for the Shoalwater Bay Indian Tribe in 
Clark County, Washington, unless and until the tribe and the county 
reach a legally enforceable agreement that addresses the financial 
impact of new development on the county, school district, fire 
district, and other local governments and the impact on zoning and 
development.
    Sec. 129. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used by the 
Department of the Interior to implement the provisions of Principle 
3(C)ii and Appendix section 3(B)(4) in Secretarial Order 3206, entitled 
``American Indian Tribal Rights, Federal-Tribal Trust Responsibilities, 
and the Endangered Species Act''.
    Sec. 130. Of the funds appropriated in title V of the Fiscal Year 
1998 Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, Public Law 105-
83, the Secretary shall provide up to $2,000,000 in the form of a grant 
to the Fairbanks North Star Borough for acquisition of undeveloped 
parcels along the banks of the Chena River for the purpose of 
establishing an urban greenbelt within the Borough. The Secretary shall 
further provide from the funds appropriated in title V up to $1,000,000 
in the form of a grant to the Municipality of Anchorage for the 
acquisition of approximately 34 acres of wetlands adjacent to a 
municipal park in Anchorage (the Jewel Lake Wetlands).
    Sec. 131. Funding for the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge and 
Certain Projects in the State of Ohio. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, from the unobligated balances appropriated for a 
grant to the State of Ohio for the acquisition of the Howard Farm near 
Metzger Marsh, Ohio--
        (1) $500,000 shall be derived by transfer and made available 
    for the acquisition of land in the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge;
        (2) $302,000 shall be derived by transfer and made available 
    for the Dayton Aviation Heritage Commission, Ohio; and
        (3) $198,000 shall be derived by transfer and made available 
    for a grant to the State of Ohio for the preservation and 
    restoration of the birthplace, boyhood home, and schoolhouse of 
    Ulysses S. Grant.
    Sec. 132. Conveyance to Nye County, Nevada. (a) Definitions.--In 
this section:
        (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Nye County, Nevada.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
    Management.
    (b) Parcels Conveyed for Use of the Nevada Science and Technology 
Center.--
        (1) In general.--For no consideration and at no other cost to 
    the County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, subject to 
    valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest in and to the 
    parcels of public land described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Land description.--The parcels of public land referred to 
    in paragraph (1) are the following:
            (A) The portion of Sec. 13 north of United States Route 95, 
        T. 15 S., R. 49 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada.
            (B) In Sec. 18, T. 15 S., R. 50 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, 
        Nevada:
                (i) W \1/2\ W \1/2\ NW \1/4\.
                (ii) The portion of the W \1/2\ W \1/2\ SW \1/4\ north 
            of United States Route 95.
        (3) Use.--
            (A) In general.--The parcels described in paragraph (2) 
        shall be used for the construction and operation of the Nevada 
        Science and Technology Center as a nonprofit museum and 
        exposition center, and related facilities and activities.
            (B) Reversion.--The conveyance of any parcel described in 
        paragraph (2) shall be subject to reversion to the United 
        States, at the discretion of Secretary, if the parcel is used 
        for a purpose other than that specified in subparagraph (A).
    (c) Parcels Conveyed for Other Use for a Commercial Purpose.--
        (1) Right to purchase.--For a period of 5 years beginning on 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the County shall have the 
    exclusive right to purchase the parcels of public land described in 
    paragraph (2) for the fair market value of the parcels, as 
    determined by the Secretary.
        (2) Land description.--The parcels of public land referred to 
    in paragraph (1) are the following parcels in Sec. 18, T. 15 S., R. 
    50 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
            (A) E \1/2\ NW \1/4\.
            (B) E \1/2\ W \1/2\ NW \1/4\.
            (C) The portion of the E \1/2\ SW \1/4\ north of United 
        States Route 95.
            (D) The portion of the E \1/2\ W \1/2\ SW \1/4\ north of 
        United States Route 95.
            (E) The portion of the SE \1/4\ north of United States 
        Route 95.
        (3) Use of proceeds.--Proceeds of a sale of a parcel described 
    in paragraph (2)--
            (A) shall be deposited in the special account established 
        under section 4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
        Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345); and
            (B) shall be available for use by the Secretary--
                (i) to reimburse costs incurred by the local offices of 
            the Bureau of Land Management in arranging the land 
            conveyances directed by this Act; and
                (ii) as provided in section 4(e)(3) of that Act (112 
            Stat. 2346).
    Sec. 133. Conveyance of Land to City of Mesquite, Nevada. Section 3 
of Public Law 99-548 (100 Stat. 3061; 110 Stat. 3009-202) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Fifth Area.--
        ``(1) Right to purchase.--For a period of 12 years after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the City of Mesquite, Nevada, 
    shall have the exclusive right to purchase the parcels of public 
    land described in paragraph (2).
        ``(2) Land description.--The parcels of public land referred to 
    in paragraph (1) are as follows:
            ``(A) In T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) The portion of sec. 27 north of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(ii) Sec. 28: NE \1/4\, S \1/2\ (except the 
            Interstate Route 15 right-of-way).
                ``(iii) Sec. 29: E \1/2\ NE \1/4\ SE \1/4\, SE \1/4\ SE 
            \1/4\.
                ``(iv) The portion of sec. 30 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(v) The portion of sec. 31 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(vi) Sec. 32: NE \1/4\ NE \1/4\ (except the 
            Interstate Route 15 right-of-way), the portion of NW \1/4\ 
            NE \1/4\ south of Interstate Route 15, and the portion of W 
            \1/2\ south of Interstate Route 15.
                ``(vii) The portion of sec. 33 north of Interstate 
            Route 15.
            ``(B) In T. 14 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) Sec. 5: NW \1/4\.
                ``(ii) Sec. 6: N \1/2\.
            ``(C) In T. 13 S., R. 69 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) The portion of sec. 25 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(ii) The portion of sec. 26 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(iii) The portion of sec. 27 south of Interstate 
            Route 15.
                ``(iv) Sec. 28: SW \1/4\ SE \1/4\.
                ``(v) Sec. 33: E \1/2\.
                ``(vi) Sec. 34.
                ``(vii) Sec. 35.
                ``(viii) Sec. 36.
        ``(3) Notification.--Not later than 10 years after the date of 
    the enactment of this subsection, the city shall notify the 
    Secretary which of the parcels of public land described in 
    paragraph (2) the city intends to purchase.
        ``(4) Conveyance.--Not later than 1 year after receiving 
    notification from the city under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall 
    convey to the city the land selected for purchase.
        ``(5) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, until the 
    date that is 12 years after the date of the enactment of this 
    subsection, the parcels of public land described in paragraph (2) 
    are withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
    public land laws, including the mining laws, and from operation of 
    the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws.
        ``(6) Use of proceeds.--The proceeds of the sale of each 
    parcel--
            ``(A) shall be deposited in the special account established 
        under section 4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
        Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345); and
            ``(B) shall be available for use by the Secretary--
                ``(i) to reimburse costs incurred by the local offices 
            of the Bureau of Land Management in arranging the land 
            conveyances directed by this Act; and
                ``(ii) as provided in section 4(e)(3) of that Act (112 
            Stat. 2346).
    ``(f) Sixth Area.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall convey to the 
    City of Mesquite, Nevada, in accordance with section 47125 of title 
    49, United States Code, up to 2,560 acres of public land to be 
    selected by the city from among the parcels of land described in 
    paragraph (2).
        ``(2) Land description.--The parcels of land referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are as follows:
            ``(A) In T. 13 S., R. 69 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) The portion of sec. 28 south of Interstate Route 
            15 (except S \1/2\ SE \1/4\).
                ``(ii) The portion of sec. 29 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(iii) The portion of sec. 30 south of Interstate 
            Route 15.
                ``(iv) The portion of sec. 31 south of Interstate Route 
            15.
                ``(v) Sec. 32.
                ``(vi) Sec. 33: W \1/2\.
            ``(B) In T. 14 S., R. 69 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) Sec. 4.
                ``(ii) Sec. 5.
                ``(iii) Sec. 6.
                ``(iv) Sec. 8.
            ``(C) In T. 14 S., R. 68 E., Mount Diablo Meridian, Nevada:
                ``(i) Sec. 1.
                ``(ii) Sec. 12.
        ``(3) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, until the 
    date that is 12 years after the date of the enactment of this 
    subsection, the parcels of public land described in paragraph (2) 
    are withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
    public land laws, including the mining laws, and from operation of 
    the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws.''.
    Sec. 134. Quadricentennial Commemoration of the Saint Croix Island 
International Historic Site. (a) Findings.--The Senate finds that--
        (1) in 1604, one of the first European colonization efforts was 
    attempted at St. Croix Island in Calais, Maine;
        (2) St. Croix Island settlement predated both the Jamestown and 
    Plymouth colonies;
        (3) St. Croix Island offers a rare opportunity to preserve and 
    interpret early interactions between European explorers and 
    colonists and Native Americans;
        (4) St. Croix Island is one of only two international historic 
    sites comprised of land administered by the National Park Service;
        (5) the quadricentennial commemorative celebration honoring the 
    importance of the St. Croix Island settlement to the countries and 
    people of both Canada and the United States is rapidly approaching;
        (6) the 1998 National Park Service management plans and long-
    range interpretive plan call for enhancing visitor facilities at 
    both Red Beach and downtown Calais;
        (7) in 1982, the Department of the Interior and Canadian 
    Department of the Environment signed a memorandum of understanding 
    to recognize the international significance of St. Croix Island 
    and, in an amendment memorandum, agreed to conduct joint strategic 
    planning for the international commemoration with a special focus 
    on the 400th anniversary of settlement in 2004;
        (8) the Department of Canadian Heritage has installed extensive 
    interpretive sites on the Canadian side of the border; and
        (9) current facilities at Red Beach and Calais are extremely 
    limited or nonexistent for a site of this historic and cultural 
    importance.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
        (1) using funds made available by this Act, the National Park 
    Service should expeditiously pursue planning for exhibits at Red 
    Beach and the town of Calais, Maine; and
        (2) the National Park Service should take what steps are 
    necessary, including consulting with the people of Calais, to 
    ensure that appropriate exhibits at Red Beach and the town of 
    Calais are completed by 2004.
    Sec. 135. No funds appropriated for the Department of the Interior 
by this Act or any other Act shall be used to study or implement any 
plan to drain Lake Powell or to reduce the water level of the lake 
below the range of water levels required for the operation of the Glen 
Canyon Dam.
    Sec. 136. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act or any other provision of law, may be used by any 
officer, employee, department or agency of the United States to impose 
or require payment of an inspection fee in connection with the export 
of shipments of fur-bearing wildlife containing 1,000 or fewer raw, 
crusted, salted or tanned hides or fur skins, or separate parts 
thereof, including species listed under the Convention on International 
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora done at Washington, 
March 3, 1973 (27 UST 1027): Provided, That this provision shall for 
the duration of the calendar year in which the shipment occurs, not 
apply to any person who ships more than 2,500 of such hides, fur skins 
or parts thereof during the course of such year.
    Sec. 137. No funds appropriated under this Act shall be expended to 
implement sound thresholds or standards in the Grand Canyon National 
Park until 90 days after the National Park Service has provided to the 
Congress a report describing: (1) the reasonable scientific basis for 
such sound thresholds or standard; and (2) the peer review process used 
to validate such sound thresholds or standard.
    Sec. 138. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands from the Haines Borough, 
Alaska, consisting of approximately 20 acres, more or less, in four 
tracts identified for this purpose by the Borough, and contained in an 
area formerly known as ``Duncan's Camp''; the Secretary shall use 
$340,000 previously allocated from funds appropriated for the 
Department of the Interior for fiscal year 1998 for acquisition of 
lands; the Secretary is authorized to convey in fee all land and 
interests in land acquired pursuant to this section without 
compensation to the heirs of Peter Duncan in settlement of a claim 
filed by them against the United States: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall not convey the lands acquired pursuant to this section unless and 
until a signed release of all claims is executed.
    Sec. 139. Funds appropriated for the Bureau of Indian Affairs for 
postsecondary schools for fiscal year 2000 shall be allocated among the 
schools proportionate to the unmet need of the schools as determined by 
the Postsecondary Funding Formula adopted by the Office of Indian 
Education Programs.
    Sec. 140. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in conveying 
the Twin Cities Research Center under the authority provided by Public 
Law 104-134, as amended by Public Law 104-208, the Secretary may accept 
and retain land and other forms of reimbursement: Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain and use any such reimbursement until expended and 
without further appropriation: (1) for the benefit of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System within the State of Minnesota; and (2) for all 
activities authorized by Public Law 100-696; 16 U.S.C. 460zz.
    Sec. 141. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to issue a notice of final rulemaking with respect to the 
valuation of crude oil for royalty purposes until the Comptroller 
General reviews the issues presented by the rulemaking and issues a 
report to the Congress. Such report shall be issued no later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act. The rulemaking must 
be consistent with existing statutory requirements.
    Sec. 142. Extension of Authority for Establishment of Thomas Paine 
Memorial. (a) In General.--Public Law 102-407 (40 U.S.C. 1003 note; 106 
Stat. 1991) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 4. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.

    ``Notwithstanding the time period limitation specified in section 
10(b) of the Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)) or any other 
provision of law, the authority for the Thomas Paine National 
Historical Association to establish a memorial to Thomas Paine in the 
District of Columbia under this Act shall expire on December 31, 
2003.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Applicable law.--Section 1(b) of Public Law 102-407 (40 
    U.S.C. 1003 note; 106 Stat. 1991) is amended by striking ``The 
    establishment'' and inserting ``Except as provided in section 4, 
    the establishment''.
        (2) Expiration of authority.--Section 3 of Public Law 102-407 
    (40 U.S.C. 1003 note; 106 Stat. 1991) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``or upon expiration of the authority for 
        the memorial under section 10(b) of that Act,'' and inserting 
        ``or on expiration of the authority for the memorial under 
        section 4,''; and
            (B) by striking ``section 8(b)(1) of that Act'' and 
        inserting ``section 8(b)(1) of the Commemorative Works Act (40 
        U.S.C. 1008(b)(1))''.
    Sec. 143. Use of National Park Service Transportation Service 
Contract Fees. Section 412 of the National Parks Omnibus Management Act 
of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 5961) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before 
    ``Notwithstanding''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Obligation of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, with respect to a service contract for the provision solely of 
transportation services at Zion National Park, the Secretary may 
obligate the expenditure of fees received in fiscal year 2000 under 
section 501 before the fees are received.''.
    Sec. 144. Extension of Deadline for Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area. (a) In General.--Section 3(c)(1) of Public Law 103-
450 (108 Stat. 4767) is amended by striking ``the date 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``May 2, 2000''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) takes 
effect on November 1, 1999.
    Sec. 145. National Park Passport Program. Section 603(c)(1) of the 
National Park Omnibus Management Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 5993(c)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``10'' and inserting ``15''.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service


                      forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $202,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, cooperative forestry, and 
education and land conservation activities, $187,534,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by law.


                          national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, and for administrative expenses 
associated with the management of funds provided under the headings 
``Forest and Rangeland Research'', ``State and Private Forestry'', 
``National Forest System'', ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
``Reconstruction and Maintenance'', and ``Land Acquisition'', 
$1,251,504,000, to remain available until expended, which shall include 
50 percent of all moneys received during prior fiscal years as fees 
collected under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as 
amended, in accordance with section 4 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-
6a(i)): Provided, That unobligated balances available at the start of 
fiscal year 2000 shall be displayed by extended budget line item in the 
fiscal year 2001 budget justification.


                         wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, 
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System 
lands and water, $561,354,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such funds are available for repayment of advances from 
other appropriations accounts previously transferred for such purposes: 
Provided further, That not less than 50 percent of any unobligated 
balances remaining (exclusive of amounts for hazardous fuels reduction) 
at the end of fiscal year 1999 shall be transferred, as repayment for 
past advances that have not been repaid, to the fund established 
pursuant to section 3 of Public Law 71-319 (16 U.S.C. 576 et seq.): 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, up 
to $4,000,000 of funds appropriated under this appropriation may be 
used for Fire Science Research in support of the Joint Fire Science 
Program: Provided further, That all authorities for the use of funds, 
including the use of contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, 
available to execute the Forest Service and Rangeland Research 
appropriation, are also available in the utilization of these funds for 
Fire Science Research.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $90,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for a specific 
dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted 
by the President to the Congress.


                      reconstruction and maintenance

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $398,927,000, to remain available until expended for 
construction, reconstruction, maintenance and acquisition of buildings 
and other facilities, and for construction, reconstruction, repair and 
maintenance of forest roads and trails by the Forest Service as 
authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, 
That up to $15,000,000 of the funds provided herein for road 
maintenance shall be available for the decommissioning of roads, 
including unauthorized roads not part of the transportation system, 
which are no longer needed: Provided further, That no funds shall be 
expended to decommission any system road until notice and an 
opportunity for public comment has been provided on each 
decommissioning project: Provided further, That any unobligated 
balances of amounts previously appropriated to the Forest Service 
``Reconstruction and Construction'' account as well as any unobligated 
balances remaining in the ``National Forest System'' account for the 
facility maintenance and trail maintenance extended budget line items 
at the end of fiscal year 1999 may be transferred to and merged with 
the ``Reconstruction and Maintenance'' account.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 
through 11), including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of 
land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory 
authority applicable to the Forest Service, $39,575,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $40,000,000 may be available for the 
acquisition of lands or interests within the tract known as the Baca 
Location No. 1 in New Mexico only upon: (1) enactment of legislation 
authorizing the acquisition of lands, or interests in lands, within 
such tract; (2) completion of a review, not to exceed 90 days, by the 
Comptroller General of the United States of an appraisal conforming 
with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition of 
all lands and interests therein to be acquired by the United States; 
and (3) submission of the Comptroller General's review of such 
appraisal to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: 
Provided, That subject to valid existing rights, all federally-owned 
lands and interests in lands within the New World Mining District 
comprising approximately 26,223 acres, more or less, which are 
described in a Federal Register notice dated August 19, 1997 (62 Fed. 
Reg. 44136-44137), are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, 
appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws, and from 
location, entry and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition 
under all mineral and geothermal leasing laws.


          acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,069,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.


             acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of 
December 4, 1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available 
until expended.


                          range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $92,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.


                administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of not to exceed 110 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 15 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 109 shall be for replacement; acquisition of 25 
passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such 
vehicles; operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to 
exceed three for replacement only, and acquisition of sufficient 
aircraft from excess sources to maintain the operable fleet at 213 
aircraft for use in Forest Service wildland fire programs and other 
Forest Service programs; notwithstanding other provisions of law, 
existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or 
trade-in value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement 
aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed 
$100,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, 
and alteration of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 
2250); (4) acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein, pursuant 
to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the 
National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) 
the cost of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for 
debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to abolish any region, to move or close any regional office 
for National Forest System administration of the Forest Service, 
Department of Agriculture without the consent of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
transferred to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation for forest 
firefighting, emergency rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands 
or waters under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
burning conditions if and only if all previously appropriated emergency 
contingent funds under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' have 
been released by the President and apportioned.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Foreign Agricultural Service in connection with forest and 
rangeland research, technical information, and assistance in foreign 
countries, and shall be available to support forestry and related 
natural resource activities outside the United States and its 
territories and possessions, including technical assistance, education 
and training, and cooperation with United States and international 
organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with 
the reprogramming procedures contained in House Report No. 105-163.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the procedures 
contained in House Report No. 105-163.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, 
as amended by Public Law 93-408.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even-aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of 
the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $2,250,000 may be 
advanced in a lump sum as Federal financial assistance to the National 
Forest Foundation, without regard to when the Foundation incurs 
expenses, for administrative expenses or projects on or benefitting 
National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service programs: 
Provided, That of the Federal funds made available to the Foundation, 
no more than $400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: 
Provided further, That the Foundation shall obtain, by the end of the 
period of Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match 
on at least one-for-one basis funds made available by the Forest 
Service: Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal 
funds to a non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds: Provided 
further, That hereafter, the National Forest Foundation may hold 
Federal funds made available but not immediately disbursed and may use 
any interest or other investment income earned (before, on, or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act) on Federal funds to carry out 
the purposes of Public Law 101-593: Provided further, That such 
investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the 
United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and 
interest by the United States.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, $2,650,000 of the 
funds available to the Forest Service shall be available for matching 
funds to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 3701-3709, and may be advanced in a lump sum as Federal 
financial assistance, without regard to when expenses are incurred, for 
projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to 
Forest Service programs: Provided, That the Foundation shall obtain, by 
the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, private 
contributions to match on at least one-for-one basis funds advanced by 
the Forest Service: Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer 
Federal funds to a non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate 
that the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 80 percent of the funds 
appropriated to the Forest Service in the ``National Forest System'' 
and ``Reconstruction and Construction'' accounts and planned to be 
allocated to activities under the ``Jobs in the Woods'' program for 
projects on National Forest land in the State of Washington may be 
granted directly to the Washington State Department of Fish and 
Wildlife for accomplishment of planned projects. Twenty percent of said 
funds shall be retained by the Forest Service for planning and 
administering projects. Project selection and prioritization shall be 
accomplished by the Forest Service with such consultation with the 
State of Washington as the Forest Service deems appropriate.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to sections 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to enter into grants, 
contracts, and cooperative agreements as appropriate with the Pinchot 
Institute for Conservation, as well as with public and other private 
agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals, to provide for 
the development, administration, maintenance, or restoration of land, 
facilities, or Forest Service programs, at the Grey Towers National 
Historic Landmark: Provided, That, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary of Agriculture may prescribe, any such public or 
private agency, organization, institution, or individual may solicit, 
accept, and administer private gifts of money and real or personal 
property for the benefit of, or in connection with, the activities and 
services at the Grey Towers National Historic Landmark: Provided 
further, That such gifts may be accepted notwithstanding the fact that 
a donor conducts business with the Department of Agriculture in any 
capacity.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available, as 
determined by the Secretary, for payments to Del Norte County, 
California, pursuant to sections 13(e) and 14 of the Smith River 
National Recreation Area Act (Public Law 101-612).
    For purposes of the Southeast Alaska Economic Disaster Fund as set 
forth in section 101(c) of Public Law 104-134, the direct grants 
provided from the Fund shall be considered direct payments for purposes 
of all applicable law except that these direct grants may not be used 
for lobbying activities: Provided, That a total of $22,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated and shall be deposited into the Southeast Alaska 
Economic Disaster Fund established pursuant to Public Law 104-134, as 
amended, without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation of 
which $10,000,000 shall be distributed in fiscal year 2000, $7,000,000 
shall be distributed in fiscal year 2001, and $5,000,000 shall be 
distributed in fiscal year 2002. The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
allocate the funds to local communities suffering economic hardship 
because of mill closures and economic dislocation in the timber 
industry to employ unemployed timber workers and for related community 
redevelopment projects as follows:
        (1) in fiscal year 2000, $4,000,000 for the Ketchikan Gateway 
    Borough, $2,000,000 for the City of Petersburg, $2,000,000 for the 
    City and Borough of Sitka, and $2,000,000 for the Metlakatla Indian 
    Community;
        (2) in fiscal year 2001, $3,000,000 for the Ketchikan Gateway 
    Borough, $1,000,000 for the City of Petersburg, $1,500,000 for the 
    City and Borough of Sitka, and $1,500,000 for the Metlakatla Indian 
    Community; and
        (3) in fiscal year 2002, $3,000,000 for the Ketchikan Gateway 
    Borough, $500,000 for the City and Borough of Sitka, and $1,500,000 
    for the Metlakatla Indian Community.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department 
of Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of 
OGC assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at 
meetings, training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
negotiations and similar non-litigation related matters. Future budget 
justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the requested funding transfers.
    No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be detailed or 
assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any other 
agency or office of the department for more than 30 days unless the 
individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    The Forest Service shall fund overhead, national commitments, 
indirect expenses, and any other category for use of funds which are 
expended at any units, that are not directly related to the 
accomplishment of specific work on-the-ground (referred to as 
``indirect expenditures''), from funds available to the Forest Service, 
unless otherwise prohibited by law: Provided, That the Forest Service 
shall implement and adhere to the definitions of indirect expenditures 
established pursuant to Public Law 105-277 on a nationwide basis 
without flexibility for modification by any organizational level except 
the Washington Office, and when changed by the Washington Office, such 
changes in definition shall be reported in budget requests submitted by 
the Forest Service: Provided further, That the Forest Service shall 
provide in all future budget justifications, planned indirect 
expenditures in accordance with the definitions, summarized and 
displayed to the Regional, Station, Area, and detached unit office 
level. The justification shall display the estimated source and amount 
of indirect expenditures, by expanded budget line item, of funds in the 
agency's annual budget justification. The display shall include 
appropriated funds and the Knutson-Vandenberg, Brush Disposal, 
Cooperative Work-Other, and Salvage Sale funds. Changes between 
estimated and actual indirect expenditures shall be reported in 
subsequent budget justifications: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 2000 the Secretary shall limit total annual indirect obligations 
from the Brush Disposal, Cooperative Work-Other, Knutson-Vandenberg, 
Reforestation, Salvage Sale, and Roads and Trails funds to 20 percent 
of the total obligations from each fund.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
used for necessary expenses in the event of law enforcement emergencies 
as necessary to protect natural resources and public or employee 
safety: Provided, That such amounts shall not exceed $500,000.
    From any unobligated balances available at the start of fiscal year 
2000, the amount of $5,000,000 shall be allocated to the Alaska Region, 
in addition to the funds appropriated to sell timber in the Alaska 
Region under this Act, for expenses directly related to preparing 
sufficient additional timber for sale in the Alaska Region to establish 
a 3-year timber supply.
    The Forest Service is authorized through the Forest Service 
existing budget to reimburse Harry Frey, $143,406 (1997 dollars) 
because his home was destroyed by arson on June 21, 1990 in retaliation 
for his work with the Forest Service.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                         clean coal technology


                                (deferral)

    Of the funds made available under this heading for obligation in 
prior years, $156,000,000 shall not be available until October 1, 2000: 
Provided, That funds made available in previous appropriations Acts 
shall be available for any ongoing project regardless of the separate 
request for proposal under which the project was selected.

                 fossil energy research and development


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal 
of mineral substances without objectionable social and environmental 
costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), performed under the minerals and 
materials science programs at the Albany Research Center in Oregon, 
$410,025,000, to remain available until expended, of which $24,000,000 
shall be derived by transfer from unobligated balances in the Biomass 
Energy Development account: Provided, That no part of the sum herein 
made available shall be used for the field testing of nuclear 
explosives in the recovery of oil and gas.

                      alternative fuels production


                      (including transfer of funds)

    Moneys received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1999, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the general fund of the 
Treasury. Moneys received as revenue sharing from operation of the 
Great Plains Gasification Plant and settlement payments shall be 
immediately transferred to the general fund of the Treasury.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    The requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) shall not apply to 
fiscal year 2000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, unobligated funds remaining from prior years shall be available 
for all naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                      elk hills school lands fund

    For necessary expenses in fulfilling the second installment payment 
under the Settlement Agreement entered into by the United States and 
the State of California on October 11, 1996, as authorized by section 
3415 of Public Law 104-106, $36,000,000, to become available on October 
1, 2000, for payment to the State of California for the State Teachers' 
Retirement Fund from the Elk Hills School Lands Fund.

                          energy conservation


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $689,242,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$25,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from unobligated balances in 
the Biomass Energy Development account: Provided, That $167,000,000 
shall be for use in energy conservation programs as defined in section 
3008(3) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509, such sums 
shall be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: $134,000,000 
for weatherization assistance grants and $33,000,000 for State energy 
conservation grants: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, in fiscal year 2001 and thereafter sums appropriated 
for weatherization assistance grants shall be contingent on a cost 
share of 25 percent by each participating State or other qualified 
participant.

                          economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Office 
of Hearings and Appeals, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                      strategic petroleum reserve

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant 
to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $159,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Energy hereafter may transfer to the 
SPR Petroleum Account such funds as may be necessary to carry out 
drawdown and sale operations of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve 
initiated under section 161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6241) from any funds available to the Department of Energy 
under this or any other Act: Provided further, That all funds 
transferred pursuant to this authority must be replenished as promptly 
as possible from oil sale receipts pursuant to the drawdown and sale.

                   energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $72,644,000, to remain available until 
expended.


             administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made 
to other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for 
which the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to 
prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, 
private or foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received 
by or for the account of the Department of Energy or otherwise 
generated by sale of products in connection with projects of the 
department appropriated under this Act may be retained by the Secretary 
of Energy, to be available until expended, and used only for plant 
construction, operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities 
as provided in appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: 
Provided further, That the remainder of revenues after the making of 
such payments shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts: Provided further, That any contract, agreement, or provision 
thereof entered into by the Secretary pursuant to this authority shall 
not be executed prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not 
including any day in which either House of Congress is not in session 
because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full comprehensive 
report on such project, including the facts and circumstances relied 
upon in support of the proposed project.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.
    In addition to other authorities set forth in this Act, the 
Secretary may accept fees and contributions from public and private 
sources, to be deposited in a contributed funds account, and prosecute 
projects using such fees and contributions in cooperation with other 
Federal, State or private agencies or concerns.
    The Secretary of Energy in cooperation with the Administrator of 
General Services Administration shall convey to the City of 
Bartlesville, Oklahoma, for no consideration, the approximately 15.644 
acres of land comprising the former site of the National Institute of 
Petroleum Energy Research (including all improvements on the land) 
described as follows: All of Block 1, Keeler's Second Addition, all of 
Block 2, Keeler's Fourth Addition, all of Blocks 9 and 10, Mountain 
View Addition, all in the City of Bartlesville, Washington County, 
Oklahoma.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service


                          Indian Health Services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to the Indian Health Service, $2,053,967,000, together 
with payments received during the fiscal year pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 
238(b) for services furnished by the Indian Health Service: Provided, 
That funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be obligated at the 
time of the grant or contract award and thereafter shall remain 
available to the tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year 
limitation: Provided further, That $12,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended, for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund: 
Provided further, That $395,290,000 for contract medical care shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2001: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided, up to $17,000,000 shall be used to 
carry out the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act: Provided further, That funds provided in 
this Act may be used for 1-year contracts and grants which are to be 
performed in two fiscal years, so long as the total obligation is 
recorded in the year for which the funds are appropriated: Provided 
further, That the amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services under the authority of title IV of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act shall remain available until expended for the 
purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable conditions and 
requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act 
(exclusive of planning, design, or construction of new facilities): 
Provided further, That funding contained herein, and in any earlier 
appropriations Acts for scholarship programs under the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2001: Provided further, That amounts 
received by tribes and tribal organizations under title IV of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be reported and accounted for 
and available to the receiving tribes and tribal organizations until 
expended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, of the amounts provided herein, not to exceed $203,781,000 
shall be for payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
or grant support costs associated with contracts, grants, self-
governance compacts or annual funding agreements between the Indian 
Health Service and a tribe or tribal organization pursuant to the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, prior to or during 
fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That funds available for the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Fund may be used, as needed, to carry out 
activities typically funded under the Indian Health Facilities account.


                         indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities 
support activities of the Indian Health Service, $318,580,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction or renovation of health facilities for the benefit of an 
Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land for sites to 
construct, improve, or enlarge health or related facilities: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any provision of law governing Federal 
construction, $3,000,000 of the funds provided herein shall be provided 
to the Hopi Tribe to reduce the debt incurred by the Tribe in providing 
staff quarters to meet the housing needs associated with the new Hopi 
Health Center: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall be 
used by the Indian Health Service to purchase TRANSAM equipment from 
the Department of Defense for distribution to the Indian Health Service 
and tribal facilities: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 
shall be used by the Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances for the 
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities in conjunction with an 
existing interagency agreement between the Indian Health Service and 
the General Services Administration: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 shall be placed in a Demolition Fund, available until 
expended, to be used by the Indian Health Service for demolition of 
Federal buildings: Provided further, That from within existing funds, 
the Indian Health Service may purchase up to 5 acres of land for 
expanding the parking facilities at the Indian Health Service hospital 
in Tahlequah, Oklahoma.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefore as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for expenses of attendance at 
meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for which 
the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved conduct, 
supervision, or management of those functions or activities: Provided, 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care at all 
tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to 
charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal 
Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to 
the account of the facility providing the service and shall be 
available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health 
Service shall be administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian 
Sanitation Facilities Act) and Public Law 93-638, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act, except those used for administrative and program direction 
purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at curtailing 
Federal travel and transportation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds previously or herein 
made available to a tribe or tribal organization through a contract, 
grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title III of the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination 
contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title III 
of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or 
tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available to the Indian Health Service in 
this Act shall be used to implement the final rule published in the 
Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and 
Human Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care 
services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health Service 
has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased costs 
associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has been 
included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted 
for in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided 
further, That with respect to functions transferred by the Indian 
Health Service to tribes or tribal organizations, the Indian Health 
Service is authorized to provide goods and services to those entities, 
on a reimbursable basis, including payment in advance with subsequent 
adjustment, and the reimbursements received therefrom, along with the 
funds received from those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination Act, may be credited to the same or subsequent 
appropriation account which provided the funding, said amounts to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That reimbursements 
for training, technical assistance, or services provided by the Indian 
Health Service will contain total costs, including direct, 
administrative, and overhead associated with the provision of goods, 
services, or technical assistance: Provided further, That the 
appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service may not be 
altered without advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $8,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household: Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development


                         payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498, as amended (20 U.S.C. 56 part A), $2,125,000.

                        Smithsonian Institution


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed 30 years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to five replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, 
rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees, $372,901,000, 
of which not to exceed $43,318,000 for the instrumentation program, 
collections acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, 
exhibition reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, 
the repatriation of skeletal remains program, research equipment, 
information management, and Latino programming shall remain available 
until expended and of which $2,500,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the National Museum of Natural History's Arctic Studies 
Center to include assistance to other museums for the planning and 
development of institutions and facilities that enhance the display of 
collections, and including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations: Provided further, That the Smithsonian 
Institution may expend Federal appropriations designated in this Act 
for lease or rent payments for long term and swing space, as rent 
payable to the Smithsonian Institution, and such rent payments may be 
deposited into the general trust funds of the Institution to the extent 
that federally supported activities are housed in the 900 H Street, 
N.W. building in the District of Columbia: Provided further, That this 
use of Federal appropriations shall not be construed as debt service, a 
Federal guarantee of, a transfer of risk to, or an obligation of, the 
Federal Government: Provided further, That no appropriated funds may be 
used to service debt which is incurred to finance the costs of 
acquiring the 900 H Street building or of planning, designing, and 
constructing improvements to such building.


           repair, rehabilitation and alteration of facilities

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of repair, rehabilitation and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by 
contract or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 
22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), including not to exceed $10,000 for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $47,900,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $6,000,000 is provided for repair, rehabilitation 
and alteration of facilities at the National Zoological Park: Provided, 
That contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, 
and repair or rehabilitation of facilities of the Smithsonian 
Institution may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on 
the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price: Provided 
further, That funds previously appropriated to the ``Construction and 
Improvements, National Zoological Park'' account and the ``Repair and 
Restoration of Buildings'' account may be transferred to and merged 
with this ``Repair, Rehabilitation and Alteration of Facilities'' 
account.


                               construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $19,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


            administrative provisions, smithsonian institution

    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used to initiate 
the design for any proposed expansion of current space or new facility 
without consultation with the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees.
    The Smithsonian Institution shall not use Federal funds in excess 
of the amount specified in Public Law 101-185 for the construction of 
the National Museum of the American Indian.
    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used for the Holt 
House located at the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C., 
unless identified as repairs to minimize water damage, monitor 
structure movement, or provide interim structural support.

                        National Gallery of Art


                          salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $61,538,000, of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special 
exhibition program shall remain available until expended.


             repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized, $6,311,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts


                        operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $14,000,000.


                               construction

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and rehabilitation of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$6,790,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $85,000,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to 
organizations and individuals pursuant to sections 5(c) and 5(g) of the 
Act, for program support, and for administering the functions of the 
Act, to remain available until expended.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$13,000,000, to remain available until expended, to the National 
Endowment for the Arts: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 11(a)(2)(A) and 
11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $101,000,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$14,700,000, to remain available until expended, of which $10,700,000 
shall be available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for the 
purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the 
current and preceding fiscal years for which equal amounts have not 
previously been appropriated.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

                       office of museum services


                        grants and administration

    For carrying out subtitle C of the Museum and Library Services Act 
of 1996, as amended, $24,400,000, to remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $1,005,000: Provided, That the Commission is 
authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its publications, 
and such fees shall be credited to this account as an offsetting 
collection, to remain available until expended without further 
appropriation.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956(a)), as amended, $7,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665, as amended), $3,000,000: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be available for compensation of level V 
of the Executive Schedule or higher positions.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,312,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members will be compensated at a rate not to exceed the rate for level 
IV of the Executive Schedule.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388 (36 U.S.C. 1401), as amended, $33,286,000, of which 
$1,575,000 for the museum's repair and rehabilitation program and 
$1,264,000 for the museum's exhibitions program shall remain available 
until expended.

                             Presidio Trust

                          presidio trust fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I of the Omnibus Parks 
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996, $24,400,000 shall be available 
to the Presidio Trust, to remain available until expended, of which up 
to $1,040,000 may be for the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by 
section 104(d) of the Act: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed, not to exceed $200,000,000. The Trust is authorized 
to issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 
section 104(d)(3) of the Act, in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is 
not complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of 
such department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless advance 
notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such committees.
    Sec. 307. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    (d) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section are applicable 
in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant 
sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest 
System or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than 
such sales were conducted in fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal 
of the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 310. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps program, unless 
the relevant agencies of the Department of the Interior and/or 
Agriculture follow appropriate reprogramming guidelines: Provided, That 
if no funds are provided for the AmeriCorps program by the Departments 
of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, then none of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps 
programs.
    Sec. 311. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used: 
(1) to demolish the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis 
Island; or (2) to prevent pedestrian use of such bridge, when it is 
made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that such pedestrian use is consistent with generally 
accepted safety standards.
    Sec. 312. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply 
if the Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim 
concerned: (1) a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or 
before September 30, 1994; and (2) all requirements established under 
sections 2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) 
for vein or lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the 
Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and 
section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site 
claims, as the case may be, were fully complied with by the applicant 
by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2000, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on 
actions taken by the department under the plan submitted pursuant to 
section 314(c) of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Bureau of 
Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the mining claims 
or mill sites contained in a patent application as set forth in 
subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have the sole 
responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.
    Sec. 313. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
appropriated to or earmarked in committee reports for the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service by Public Laws 103-138, 
103-332, 104-134, 104-208, 105-83, and 105-277 for payments to tribes 
and tribal organizations for contract support costs associated with 
self-determination or self-governance contracts, grants, compacts, or 
annual funding agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the 
Indian Health Service as funded by such Acts, are the total amounts 
available for fiscal years 1994 through 1999 for such purposes, except 
that, for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, tribes and tribal organizations 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of 
ongoing contracts, grants, self-governance compacts or annual funding 
agreements.
    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 2000 the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior are 
authorized to limit competition for watershed restoration project 
contracts as part of the ``Jobs in the Woods'' component of the 
President's Forest Plan for the Pacific Northwest or the Jobs in the 
Woods Program established in Region 10 of the Forest Service to 
individuals and entities in historically timber-dependent areas in the 
States of Washington, Oregon, northern California and Alaska that have 
been affected by reduced timber harvesting on Federal lands.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds collected under the Recreational Fee 
Demonstration program may be used to plan, design, or construct a 
visitor center or any other permanent structure without prior approval 
of the House and the Senate Committees on Appropriations if the 
estimated total cost of the facility exceeds $500,000.
    Sec. 316. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act providing appropriations for the Department of the Interior, 
the Forest Service or the Smithsonian Institution may be used to submit 
nominations for the designation of Biosphere Reserves pursuant to the 
Man and Biosphere program administered by the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall be repealed upon the 
enactment of subsequent legislation specifically authorizing United 
States participation in the Man and Biosphere program.
    Sec. 317. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
for any fiscal year may be used to designate, or to post any sign 
designating, any portion of Canaveral National Seashore in Brevard 
County, Florida, as a clothing-optional area or as an area in which 
public nudity is permitted, if such designation would be contrary to 
county ordinance.
    Sec. 318. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
        (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an individual 
    if such grant is awarded to such individual for a literature 
    fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or American Jazz Masters 
    Fellowship.
        (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure that 
    no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made to a State 
    or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used to make a 
    grant to any other organization or individual to conduct activity 
    independent of the direct grant recipient. Nothing in this 
    subsection shall prohibit payments made in exchange for goods and 
    services.
        (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
    unless the application is specific to the contents of the season, 
    including identified programs and/or projects.
    Sec. 319. The National Endowment for the Arts and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities are authorized to solicit, accept, 
receive, and invest in the name of the United States, gifts, bequests, 
or devises of money and other property or services and to use such in 
furtherance of the functions of the National Endowment for the Arts and 
the National Endowment for the Humanities. Any proceeds from such 
gifts, bequests, or devises, after acceptance by the National Endowment 
for the Arts or the National Endowment for the Humanities, shall be 
paid by the donor or the representative of the donor to the Chairman. 
The Chairman shall enter the proceeds in a special interest-bearing 
account to the credit of the appropriate endowment for the purposes 
specified in each case.
    Sec. 320. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given 
to providing services or awarding financial assistance for projects, 
productions, workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:
        (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population of 
    individuals, including urban minorities, who have historically been 
    outside the purview of arts and humanities programs due to factors 
    such as a high incidence of income below the poverty line or to 
    geographic isolation.
        (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
    defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
    annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
    Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
    family of the size involved.
    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
        (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
    projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of national 
    impact or availability or are able to tour several States;
        (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 percent, 
    in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, excluding 
    grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
        (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually and 
    by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each grant 
    category under section 5 of such Act; and
        (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
    improve and support community-based music performance and 
    education.
    Sec. 321. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated to fund new revisions of national forest land 
management plans until new final or interim final rules for forest land 
management planning are published in the Federal Register. Those 
national forests which are currently in a revision process, having 
formally published a Notice of Intent to revise prior to October 1, 
1997; those national forests having been court-ordered to revise; those 
national forests where plans reach the 15 year legally mandated date to 
revise before or during calendar year 2000; national forests within the 
Interior Columbia Basin Ecosystem study area; and the White Mountain 
National Forest are exempt from this section and may use funds in this 
Act and proceed to complete the forest plan revision in accordance with 
current forest planning regulations.
    Sec. 322. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated to complete and issue the 5-year program under 
the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act.
    Sec. 323. None of the funds in this Act may be used to support 
Government-wide administrative functions unless such functions are 
justified in the budget process and funding is approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 324. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds in this Act may be used for GSA Telecommunication Centers or the 
President's Council on Sustainable Development.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds in this Act may be used for planning, 
design or construction of improvements to Pennsylvania Avenue in front 
of the White House without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 326. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service or Bureau of 
Indian Affairs may be used to enter into any new or expanded self-
determination contract or grant or self-governance compact pursuant to 
the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, for any 
activities not previously covered by such contracts, compacts or 
grants. Nothing in this section precludes the continuation of those 
specific activities for which self-determination and self-governance 
contracts, compacts and grants currently exist or the renewal of 
contracts, compacts and grants for those activities; implementation of 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83 (111 Stat. 1597); or compliance with 
25 U.S.C. 2005.
    Sec. 327. Amounts deposited during fiscal year 1999 in the roads 
and trails fund provided for in the fourteenth paragraph under the 
heading ``FOREST SERVICE'' of the Act of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 843; 
16 U.S.C. 501), shall be used by the Secretary of Agriculture, without 
regard to the State in which the amounts were derived, to repair or 
reconstruct roads, bridges, and trails on National Forest System lands 
or to carry out and administer projects to improve forest health 
conditions, which may include the repair or reconstruction of roads, 
bridges, and trails on National Forest System lands in the wildland-
community interface where there is an abnormally high risk of fire. The 
projects shall emphasize reducing risks to human safety and public 
health and property and enhancing ecological functions, long-term 
forest productivity, and biological integrity. The Secretary shall 
commence the projects during fiscal year 2000, but the projects may be 
completed in a subsequent fiscal year. Funds shall not be expended 
under this section to replace funds which would otherwise appropriately 
be expended from the timber salvage sale fund. Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to exempt any project from any environmental law.
    Sec. 328. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to establish a national wildlife refuge in the Kankakee River watershed 
in northwestern Indiana and northeastern Illinois.
    Sec. 329. None of the funds provided in this or previous 
appropriations Acts for the agencies funded by this Act or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be transferred to or used to support the Council on Environmental 
Quality or other offices in the Executive Office of the President for 
purposes related to the American Heritage Rivers program.
    Sec. 330. Other than in emergency situations, none of the funds in 
this Act may be used to operate telephone answering machines during 
core business hours unless such answering machines include an option 
that enables callers to reach promptly an individual on-duty with the 
agency being contacted.
    Sec. 331. Enhancing Forest Service Administration of Rights-of-way 
and Land Uses. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall develop and 
implement a pilot program for the purpose of enhancing forest service 
administration of rights-of-way and other land uses. The authority for 
this program shall be for fiscal years 2000 through 2004. Prior to the 
expiration of the authority for this pilot program, the Secretary shall 
submit a report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives that evaluates 
whether the use of funds under this section resulted in more 
expeditious approval of rights-of-way and special use authorizations. 
This report shall include the Secretary's recommendation for statutory 
or regulatory changes to reduce the average processing time for rights-
of-way and special use permit applications.
    (b) Deposit of Fees.--Subject to subsections (a) and (f), during 
fiscal years 2000 through 2004, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
deposit into a special account established in the Treasury all fees 
collected by the Secretary to recover the costs of processing 
applications for, and monitoring compliance with, authorizations to use 
and occupy National Forest System lands pursuant to section 28(l) of 
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185(l)), section 504(g) of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1764(g)), 
section 9701 of title 31, United States Code, and section 110(g) of the 
National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h-2(g)).
    (c) Use of Retained Amounts.--Amounts deposited pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be available, without further appropriation, for 
expenditure by the Secretary of Agriculture to cover costs incurred by 
the Forest Service for the processing of applications for special use 
authorizations and for monitoring activities undertaken in connection 
with such authorizations. Amounts in the special account shall remain 
available for such purposes until expended.
    (d) Reporting Requirement.--In the budget justification documents 
submitted by the Secretary of Agriculture in support of the President's 
budget for a fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
Code, the Secretary shall include a description of the purposes for 
which amounts were expended from the special account during the 
preceding fiscal year, including the amounts expended for each purpose, 
and a description of the purposes for which amounts are proposed to be 
expended from the special account during the next fiscal year, 
including the amounts proposed to be expended for each purpose.
    (e) Definition of Authorization.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``authorizations'' means special use authorizations issued under 
subpart B of part 251 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.
    (f) Implementation.--This section shall take effect upon 
promulgation of Forest Service regulations for the collection of fees 
for processing of special use authorizations and for related monitoring 
activities.
    Sec. 332. Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research. (a) 
The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter the ``Secretary'') is hereby 
and hereafter authorized to conduct technology transfer and 
development, training, dissemination of information and applied 
research in the management, processing and utilization of the hardwood 
forest resource. This authority is in addition to any other authorities 
which may be available to the Secretary including, but not limited to, 
the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
2101 et seq.), and the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Act of 
1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1600-1614).
    (b) In carrying out this authority, the Secretary may enter into 
grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements with public and private 
agencies, organizations, corporations, institutions and individuals. 
The Secretary may accept gifts and donations pursuant to the Act of 
October 10, 1978 (7 U.S.C. 2269) including gifts and donations from a 
donor that conducts business with any agency of the Department of 
Agriculture or is regulated by the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (c) The Secretary is hereby and hereafter authorized to operate and 
utilize the assets of the Wood Education and Resource Center 
(previously named the Robert C. Byrd Hardwood Technology Center in West 
Virginia) as part of a newly formed ``Institute of Hardwood Technology 
Transfer and Applied Research'' (hereinafter the ``Institute''). The 
Institute, in addition to the Wood Education and Resource Center, will 
consist of a Director, technology transfer specialists from State and 
Private Forestry, the Forestry Sciences Laboratory in Princeton, West 
Virginia, and any other organizational unit of the Department of 
Agriculture as the Secretary deems appropriate. The overall management 
of the Institute will be the responsibility of the Forest Service, 
State and Private Forestry.
    (d) The Secretary is hereby and hereafter authorized to generate 
revenue using the authorities provided herein. Any revenue received as 
part of the operation of the Institute shall be deposited into a 
special fund in the Treasury of the United States, known as the 
``Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research Fund'', which shall 
be available to the Secretary until expended, without further 
appropriation, in furtherance of the purposes of this section, 
including upkeep, management, and operation of the Institute and the 
payment of salaries and expenses.
    (e) There are hereby and hereafter authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
    Sec. 333. No timber in Region 10 of the Forest Service shall be 
advertised for sale which, when using domestic Alaska western red cedar 
selling values and manufacturing costs, fails to provide at least 60 
percent of normal profit and risk of the appraised timber, except at 
the written request by a prospective bidder. Program accomplishments 
shall be based on volume sold. Should Region 10 sell, in fiscal year 
2000, the annual average portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity 
called for in the current Tongass Land Management Plan which provides 
greater than 60 percent of normal profit and risk at the time of the 
sale advertisement, all of the western red cedar timber from those 
sales which is surplus to the needs of domestic processors in Alaska, 
shall be made available to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 
United States based on values in the Pacific Northwest as determined by 
the Forest Service and stated in the timber sale contract. Should 
Region 10 sell, in fiscal year 2000, less than the annual average 
portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity called for in the 
current Tongass Land Management Plan meeting the 60 percent of normal 
profit and risk standard at the time of sale advertisement, the volume 
of western red cedar timber available to domestic processors at rates 
specified in the timber sale contract in the contiguous 48 United 
States shall be that volume: (1) which is surplus to the needs of 
domestic processors in Alaska; and (2) is that percent of the surplus 
western red cedar volume determined by calculating the ratio of the 
total timber volume which has been sold on the Tongass to the annual 
average portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity called for in 
the current Tongass Land Management Plan. The percentage shall be 
calculated by Region 10 on a rolling basis as each sale is sold (for 
purposes of this amendment, a ``rolling basis'' shall mean that the 
determination of how much western red cedar is eligible for sale to 
various markets shall be made at the time each sale is awarded). 
Western red cedar shall be deemed ``surplus to the needs of domestic 
processors in Alaska'' when the timber sale holder has presented to the 
Forest Service documentation of the inability to sell western red cedar 
logs from a given sale to domestic Alaska processors at a price equal 
to or greater than the log selling value stated in the contract. All 
additional western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 
United States domestic processors may be exported to foreign markets at 
the election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska yellow cedar may be 
sold at prevailing export prices at the election of the timber sale 
holder.
    Sec. 334. For fiscal year 2000, with respect to inventorying, 
monitoring, or surveying requirements for planning or management 
activities on Federal land, the Secretary of Agriculture may comply 
with part 219 of volume 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations and a 
land and resource management plan, and the Secretary of the Interior 
may comply with a resource management plan by using currently available 
scientific data concerning any fish, wildlife, or plants not subject to 
the Endangered Species Act, and by considering the availability of 
habitat suitable for the particular species: Provided, That the 
Secretaries may at their discretion determine whether additional 
species population surveys should also be collected: Provided further, 
That a project subject to the Northwest Forest Plan for which the 
record of decision was signed by an agency official prior to the date 
of the enactment of this Act may, at the discretion of the Secretaries, 
be deemed to be implemented on the date the decision was signed.
    Sec. 335. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the 
Interior shall:
        (1) prepare the report required of them by section 323(a) of 
    the Fiscal Year 1998 Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations 
    Act (Public Law 105-83; 111 Stat. 1543, 1596-7);
        (2) distribute the report and make such report available for 
    public comment for a minimum of 120 days; and
        (3) include detailed responses to the public comment in any 
    final environmental impact statement associated with the Interior 
    Columbia Basin Ecosystem Management Project.
    Sec. 336. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan 
at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to the 
Senate for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article II, 
section 2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which has 
not entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.
    Sec. 337. (a) Millsites Opinion.--No funds shall be expended by the 
Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture, for fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001, to limit the number or acreage of millsites based 
on the ratio between the number or acreage of millsites and the number 
or acreage of associated lode or placer claims with respect to any 
patent application grandfathered pursuant to section 113 of the 
Department of the Interior and Related Agencies, Appropriations Act, 
1995; any operation or property for which a plan of operations has been 
previously approved; or any operation or property for which a plan of 
operations has been submitted to the Bureau of Land Management or 
Forest Service prior to May 21, 1999.
    (b) No Ratification.--Nothing in this Act or the Emergency 
Supplemental Act of 1999 shall be construed as an explicit or tacit 
adoption, ratification, endorsement or approval of the opinion dated 
November 7, 1997, by the solicitor of the Department of the Interior 
concerning millsites.
    Sec. 338. The Forest Service, in consultation with the Department 
of Labor, shall review Forest Service campground concessions policy to 
determine if modifications can be made to Forest Service contracts for 
campgrounds so that such concessions fall within the regulatory 
exemption of 29 CFR 4.122(b). The Forest Service shall offer in fiscal 
year 2000 such concession prospectuses under the regulatory exemption, 
except that, any prospectus that does not meet the requirements of the 
regulatory exemption shall be offered as a service contract in 
accordance with the requirements of 41 U.S.C. 351-358.
    Sec. 339. Pilot Program of Charges and Fees for Harvest of Forest 
Botanical Products. (a) Definition of Forest Botanical Product.--For 
purposes of this section, the term ``forest botanical product'' means 
any naturally occurring mushrooms, fungi, flowers, seeds, roots, bark, 
leaves, and other vegetation (or portion thereof) that grow on National 
Forest System lands. The term does not include trees, except as 
provided in regulations issued under this section by the Secretary of 
Agriculture.
    (b) Recovery of Fair Market Value for Products.--The Secretary of 
Agriculture shall develop and implement a pilot program to charge and 
collect not less than the fair market value for forest botanical 
products harvested on National Forest System lands. The Secretary shall 
establish appraisal methods and bidding procedures to ensure that the 
amounts collected for forest botanical products are not less than fair 
market value.
    (c) Fees.--
        (1) Imposition and collection.--Under the pilot program, the 
    Secretary of Agriculture shall also charge and collect fees from 
    persons who harvest forest botanical products on National Forest 
    System lands to recover all costs to the Department of Agriculture 
    associated with the granting, modifying, or monitoring the 
    authorization for harvest of the forest botanical products, 
    including the costs of any environmental or other analysis.
        (2) Security.--The Secretary may require a person assessed a 
    fee under this subsection to provide security to ensure that the 
    Secretary receives the fees imposed under this subsection from the 
    person.
    (d) Sustainable Harvest Levels for Forest Botanical Products.--The 
Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct appropriate analyses to 
determine whether and how the harvest of forest botanical products on 
National Forest System lands can be conducted on a sustainable basis. 
The Secretary may not permit under the pilot program the harvest of 
forest botanical products at levels in excess of sustainable harvest 
levels, as defined pursuant to the Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 
1960 (16 U.S.C. 528 et seq.). The Secretary shall establish procedures 
and timeframes to monitor and revise the harvest levels established for 
forest botanical products.
    (e) Waiver Authority.--
        (1) Personal use.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish 
    a personal use harvest level for each forest botanical product, and 
    the harvest of a forest botanical product below that level by a 
    person for personal use shall not be subject to charges and fees 
    under subsections (b) and (c).
        (2) Other exceptions.--The Secretary may also waive the 
    application of subsection (b) or (c) pursuant to such regulations 
    as the Secretary may prescribe.
    (f) Deposit and Use of Funds.--
        (1) Deposit.--Funds collected under the pilot program in 
    accordance with subsections (b) and (c) shall be deposited into a 
    special account in the Treasury of the United States.
        (2) Funds available.--Funds deposited into the special account 
    in accordance with paragraph (1) in excess of the amounts collected 
    for forest botanical products during fiscal year 1999 shall be 
    available for expenditure by the Secretary of Agriculture under 
    paragraph (3) without further appropriation, and shall remain 
    available for expenditure until the date specified in subsection 
    (h)(2).
        (3) Authorized uses.--The funds made available under paragraph 
    (2) shall be expended at units of the National Forest System in 
    proportion to the charges and fees collected at that unit under the 
    pilot program to pay for--
            (A) in the case of funds collected under subsection (b), 
        the costs of conducting inventories of forest botanical 
        products, determining sustainable levels of harvest, monitoring 
        and assessing the impacts of harvest levels and methods, and 
        for restoration activities, including any necessary vegetation; 
        and
            (B) in the case of fees collected under subsection (c), the 
        costs described in paragraph (1) of such subsection.
        (4) Treatment of fees.--Funds collected under subsections (b) 
    and (c) shall not be taken into account for the purposes of the 
    following laws:
            (A) The sixth paragraph under the heading ``forest 
        service'' in the Act of May 23, 1908 (16 U.S.C. 500) and 
        section 13 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly known as the 
        Weeks Act; 16 U.S.C. 500).
            (B) The fourteenth paragraph under the heading ``forest 
        service'' in the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501).
            (C) Section 33 of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 
        U.S.C. 1012).
            (D) The Act of August 8, 1937, and the Act of May 24, 1939 
        (43 U.S.C. 1181a et seq.).
            (E) Section 6 of the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known 
        as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act; 43 U.S.C. 869-4).
            (F) Chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code.
            (G) Section 401 of the Act of June 15, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
        715s).
            (H) Section 4 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act 
        of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a).
            (I) Any other provision of law relating to revenue 
        allocation.
    (g) Reporting Requirements.--As soon as practicable after the end 
of each fiscal year in which the Secretary of Agriculture collects 
charges and fees under subsections (b) and (c) or expends funds from 
the special account under subsection (f), the Secretary shall submit to 
the Congress a report summarizing the activities of the Secretary under 
the pilot program, including the funds generated under subsections (b) 
and (c), the expenses incurred to carry out the pilot program, and the 
expenditures made from the special account during that fiscal year.
    (h) Duration of Pilot Program.--
        (1) Charges and fees.--The Secretary of Agriculture may collect 
    charges and fees under the authority of subsections (b) and (c) 
    only during fiscal years 2000 through 2004.
        (2) Use of special account.--The Secretary may make 
    expenditures from the special account under subsection (f) until 
    September 30 of the fiscal year following the last fiscal year 
    specified in paragraph (1). After that date, amounts remaining in 
    the special account shall be transferred to the general fund of the 
    Treasury.
    Sec. 340. Title III, section 3001 of Public Law 106-31 is amended 
by inserting after ``Alabama,'' the following: ``in fiscal year 1999 or 
2000''.
    Sec. 341. (a) The authority to enter into stewardship contracting 
demonstration pilot projects provided to the Forest Service in 
accordance with section 347 of title III of section 101(e) of division 
A of Public Law 105-277 is hereby expanded to authorize the Forest 
Service to enter into an additional nine projects in Region One.
    (b) Section 347 of title III of section 101(e) of division A of 
Public Law 105-277 is hereby amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``, via agreement or contract as 
        appropriate,'' before ``may enter into''; and
            (B) by striking ``(28) contracts with private persons and'' 
        and inserting ``(28) stewardship contracting demonstration 
        pilot projects with private persons or other public or 
        private'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``contract'' and inserting 
    ``project'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in the heading, by inserting ``Agreements or'' before 
        ``Contracts'';
            (B) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``a contract'' and inserting ``an 
            agreement or contract''; and
                (ii) by striking ``private contracts'' and inserting 
            ``private agreements or contracts'';
            (C) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``agreement or'' before 
        ``contracts''; and
            (D) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``agreement or'' before 
        ``contracts'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a contract'' and 
        inserting ``an agreement or contract''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``a contract'' and 
        inserting ``an agreement or contract''; and
        (5) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in the first sentence by striking ``contract'' and 
        inserting ``pilot project''; and
            (B) in the last sentence--
                (i) by inserting ``agreements or'' before 
            ``contracts''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``agreements or'' before 
            ``contract''.
    Sec. 342. Notwithstanding section 343 of Public Law 105-83, 
increases in recreation residence fees shall be implemented in fiscal 
year 2000 only to the extent that the fiscal year 2000 fees do not 
exceed the fiscal year 1999 fee by more than $2,000.
    Sec. 343. Federal monies appropriated for the purchase of land or 
interests in land by the United States Forest Service (``Forest 
Service'') in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area 
(``CRGNSA'') shall be used by the Forest Service in compliance with the 
acquisition protocol set out in this section.
        (a)(1) Acquisitions.--The Secretary of Agriculture (``the 
    Secretary'') is directed to make every reasonable effort to acquire 
    on or before March 15, 2000, pursuant to his existing authority, 
    land acquisition projects which the Forest Service has determined 
    to have been delayed for a significant time or which have not yet 
    been completed despite past direction through report language from 
    either the House or Senate Appropriations Committee (``the 
    Committees'').
        (2) For the purposes of appraising the value of the lands or 
    interests in land the Forest Service may, at its discretion, apply 
    the standard found in A-10 of the Uniform Standards of Appraisal 
    for Federal Land Acquisitions as required by Public Law 91-646, as 
    amended, even if the lands or interests in land were purchased by 
    the current title holder subsequent to the enactment of the 
    Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act (Public Law 99-663) 
    and before the effective date of this Act.
        (b) Report to Congress.--On or before February 15, 2000, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Senate and House Appropriations 
    Committees a report detailing the status of the potential land 
    acquisitions referenced above as well as any other pending 
    purchases of land or interests in land in the CRGNSA. If any of the 
    lands or interests in land referenced above have not been acquired 
    by February 15, 2000, the report should detail the specific issue 
    or issues preventing the acquisition or acquisitions from being 
    completed.
        (c) Mediation.--If the Secretary's report, as described in 
    subsection (b) details issues other than disagreement over fair 
    market value which are preventing acquisitions from occurring, the 
    Secretary is directed to immediately make available to the 
    prospective seller or sellers non-binding mediation in an attempt 
    to resolve these non-fair market value issues. The Secretary shall 
    submit to the Committees a report on the status of any mediation on 
    or before April 15, 2000. The Secretary and prospective seller may 
    mediate any disagreement over fair market value if both the 
    Secretary and prospective seller agree mediation has the potential 
    to resolve the fair market value disagreement.
        (d) Arbitration Requirement.--Any issues concerning differences 
    between the Secretary and the owners of the land or interest in 
    land referenced in subsection (a)(1) over the fair market value of 
    these lands or interests in land not resolved before April 15, 
    2000, shall be resolved using the arbitration process set out in 
    subsections (e) through (g) of this section.
        (e) Selection of Arbitration Panel.--On or before April 15, 
    2000, the Secretary and the prospective seller each shall designate 
    one arbitrator, and instruct these two arbitrator designees to 
    appoint before May 1, 2000, a third arbitrator upon whom the 
    arbitrator designees mutually agree. At least two of the three 
    arbitrators shall be State certified appraisers possessing 
    qualifications consistent with State regulatory requirements that 
    meet the intent of title XI, Financial Institutions Reform, 
    Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, shall not be employed by the 
    United States of America, the prospective seller, or the 
    prospective seller's current or former legal counsel. The third 
    arbitrator shall be a member in good standing of either the bars of 
    Washington or Oregon and shall not be employed by the United States 
    of America, the prospective seller, or the prospective seller's 
    current or former legal counsel. Total compensation for the 
    arbitration panel shall not exceed $15,000.
        (f) Written Material.--The Secretary and prospective seller 
    each may submit a maximum of 20 pages of argument to the 
    arbitration panel, in a format consistent with the format for 
    submitting written arguments established by the Ninth Circuit Court 
    of Appeals. Exhibits, affidavit, or declarations shall not be 
    submitted. No other written material may be submitted to the 
    arbitration panel except a copy of this legislation and copies of 
    qualified appraisals. The term ``qualified appraisals'' shall be 
    limited to appraisals prepared by State-certified appraisers 
    possessing qualifications consistent with the State regulatory 
    requirements that meet the intent of title XI, Financial 
    Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, and 
    complying with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
    Acquisitions, which were submitted to the Secretary or prepared at 
    the direction of the Secretary either prior to the effective date 
    of this legislation or between the effective date and February 15, 
    2000. The Secretary and the prospective seller may submit no more 
    than one qualified appraisal each to the arbitration panel. Neither 
    the Secretary nor the prospective seller may submit to the 
    arbitration panel any qualified appraisal not provided to the 
    Secretary or the prospective seller on or before February 15, 2000. 
    All written materials must be submitted to the arbitration panel on 
    or before May 15, 2000.
        (g) Decision of the Arbitration Panel.--On or before July 15, 
    2000, the arbitration panel shall convey to the prospective seller 
    and the Secretary one of the following findings: (1) that neither 
    qualified appraisal complies with Public Law 91-646 and with the 
    Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition (1992); or 
    (2) that at least one of the qualified appraisals complies with 
    Public Law 91-646 and with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
    Federal Land Acquisitions (1992), together with an advisory 
    decision recommending an amount the Secretary should offer the 
    prospective seller for his or her interest in real property. Upon 
    receipt of a recommendation by the arbitration panel, the Secretary 
    shall immediately notify the prospective seller and the CRGNSA of 
    the day the recommendation was received. The Secretary shall make a 
    determination to adopt or reject the arbitration panel's advisory 
    decision and notify the prospective seller and the CRGNSA of his 
    determination within 45 days of receipt of the advisory decision. 
    If at least one of the appraisals complies with Public Law 91-646, 
    and with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
    Acquisition, the arbitration panel shall also make an advisory 
    finding on what portion of the arbitration panel's fees should be 
    paid by the Secretary and what portion of the arbitration panel's 
    fees should be paid by the prospective seller. The arbitration 
    panel is authorized to recommend these fees be borne entirely by 
    either the Secretary or the prospective seller.
        (h) Admissibility.--Neither the fact that arbitration pursuant 
    to this section has occurred nor the recommendation of the 
    arbitration panel shall be admissible in any court or 
    administrative hearing.
        (i) Expiration Date.--This section shall remain in effect 
    without respect to fiscal year limitations and expire on December 
    31, 2000.
    Sec. 344. A project undertaken by the Forest Service under the 
Recreation Fee Demonstration Program as authorized by section 315 of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act 
for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended, shall not result in--
        (1) displacement of the holder of an authorization to provide 
    commercial recreation services on Federal lands. Prior to 
    initiating any project, the Secretary shall consult with 
    potentially affected holders to determine what impacts the project 
    may have on the holders. Any modifications to the authorization 
    shall be made within the terms and conditions of the authorization 
    and authorities of the impacted agency.
        (2) the return of a commercial recreation service to the 
    Secretary for operation when such services have been provided in 
    the past by a private sector provider, except when--
            (A) the private sector provider fails to bid on such 
        opportunities;
            (B) the private sector provider terminates its relationship 
        with the agency; or
            (C) the agency revokes the permit for non-compliance with 
        the terms and conditions of the authorization.
In such cases, the agency may use the Recreation Fee Demonstration 
Program to provide for operations until a subsequent operator can be 
found through the offering of a new prospectus.
    Sec. 345. National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic 
Diversification. (a) Findings and Purposes.--Section 2373 of the 
National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6611) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``national forests'' and 
        inserting ``National Forest System land'';
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the national forests'' 
        and inserting ``National Forest System land'';
            (C) in paragraph (5), by striking ``forest resources'' and 
        inserting ``natural resources''; and
            (D) in paragraph (6), by striking ``national forest 
        resources'' and inserting ``National Forest System land 
        resources''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
            (A) by striking ``national forests'' and inserting 
        ``National Forest System land''; and
            (B) by striking ``forest resources'' and inserting 
        ``natural resources''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 2374(1) of the National Forest-Dependent 
Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6612(1)) is amended by striking ``forestry'' and inserting ``natural 
resources''.
    (c) Rural Forestry and Economic Diversification Action Teams.--
Section 2375(b) of the National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities 
Economic Diversification Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6613(b)) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``forestry'' and 
    inserting ``natural resources''; and
        (2) in the second and third sentences, by striking ``national 
    forest resources'' and inserting ``National Forest System land 
    resources''.
    (d) Action Plan Implementation.--Section 2376(a) of the National 
Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act of 1990 
(7 U.S.C. 6614(a)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``forest resources'' and inserting ``natural 
    resources''; and
        (2) by striking ``national forest resources'' and inserting 
    ``National Forest System land resources''.
    (e) Training and Education.--Paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 
2377(a) of the National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic 
Diversification Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6615(a)) are amended by striking 
``national forest resources'' and inserting ``National Forest System 
land resources''.
    (f) Loans to Economically Disadvantaged Rural Communities.--
Paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2378(a) of the National Forest-
Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 6616(a)) are amended by striking ``national forest resources'' 
and inserting ``National Forest System land resources''.
    Sec. 346. Interstate 90 Land Exchange. (a) Section 604(a) of the 
Interstate 90 Land Exchange Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 
2681-326 (1998)) is hereby amended by adding at the end of the first 
sentence: ``except title to offered lands and interests in lands 
described in subparagraphs (Q), (R), (S), and (T) of section 605(c)(2) 
must be placed in escrow by Plum Creek, according to terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Secretary and Plum Creek, for a 3-year 
period beginning on the later of the date of the enactment of this Act 
or consummation of the exchange. During the period the lands are held 
in escrow, Plum Creek shall not undertake any activities on these 
lands, except for fire suppression and road maintenance, without the 
approval of the Secretary, which shall not be unreasonably withheld''.
    (b) Section 604(b) of the Interstate 90 Land Exchange Act of 1998 
(Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-326 (1998)) is hereby amended by 
inserting after ``offered land'' the following: ``as provided in 
section 604(a), and placement in escrow of acceptable title to the 
offered lands described in subparagraphs (Q), (R), (S), and (T) of 
section 605(c)(2)''.
    (c) Section 604(b) is further amended by adding the following at 
the end of the first sentence: ``except Township 19 North, Range 10 
East, W.M., Section 4, Township 20 North, Range 10 East, W.M., Section 
32, and Township 21 North, Range 14 East, W.M., W\1/2\W\1/2\ of Section 
16, which shall be retained by the United States''. The appraisal 
approved by the Secretary of Agriculture on July 14, 1999 (the 
``Appraisal'') shall be adjusted by subtracting the values determined 
for Township 19 North, Range 10 East, W.M., Section 4 and Township 20 
North, Range 10 East, W.M., Section 32 during the Appraisal process in 
the context of the whole estate to be conveyed.
    (d) After adjustment of the Appraisal, the values of the offered 
and selected lands, including the offered lands held in escrow, shall 
be equalized as provided in section 605(c) except that the Secretary 
also may equalize values through the following, including any 
combination thereof--
        (1) conveyance of any other lands under the jurisdiction of the 
    Secretary acceptable to Plum Creek and the Secretary after 
    compliance with all applicable Federal environmental and other 
    laws; and
        (2) to the extent sufficient acceptable lands are not available 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, cash payments as and 
    to the extent funds become available through appropriations, 
    private sources, or, if necessary, by reprogramming.
    (e) The Secretary shall promptly seek to identify lands acceptable 
for conveyance to equalize values under paragraph (1) of subsection (d) 
and shall, not later than May 1, 2000, provide a report to the Congress 
outlining the results of such efforts.
    (f) As funds or lands are provided to Plum Creek by the Secretary, 
Plum Creek shall release to the United States deeds for lands and 
interests in land held in escrow based on the values determined during 
the Appraisal process in the context of the whole estate to be 
conveyed. Deeds shall be released for lands and interests in lands in 
the exact reverse order listed in section 605(c)(2).
    (g) Section 606(d) is hereby amended to read as follows: ``the 
Secretary and Plum Creek shall make the adjustments directed in section 
604(b) and consummate the land exchange within 30 days of the enactment 
of the Interstate 90 Land Exchange Amendment, unless the Secretary and 
Plum Creek mutually agree to extend the consummation date''.
    Sec. 347. The Snoqualmie National Forest Boundary Adjustment Act of 
1999. (a) In General.--The boundary of the Snoqualmie National Forest 
is hereby adjusted as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Snoqualmie 
National Forest 1999 Boundary Adjustment'' dated June 30, 1999. Such 
map, together with a legal description of all lands included in the 
boundary adjustment, shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest Service in 
Washington, District of Columbia. Nothing in this subsection shall 
limit the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to adjust the 
boundary pursuant to section 11 of the Weeks Law of March 1, 1911.
    (b) Rule for Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For the purposes of 
section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 
U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundary of the Snoqualmie National Forest, as 
adjusted by subsection (a), shall be considered to be the boundary of 
the Forest as of January 1, 1965.
    Sec. 348. Section 1770(d) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 
U.S.C. 2276(d)) is amended by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph 
(11) and by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) section 3(e) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable 
    Resources Research Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1642(e));''.
    Sec. 349. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to implement or enforce any provision 
in Presidential Executive Order No. 13123 regarding the Federal Energy 
Management Program which circumvents or contradicts any statutes 
relevant to Federal energy use and the measurement thereof.
    Sec. 350. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the physical relocation of grizzly bears into the Selway-Bitterroot 
Wilderness of Idaho and Montana.
    Sec. 351. Youth Conservation Corps and Related Partnerships. (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, there shall be 
available for high priority projects which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by Public Law 91-378, or related 
partnerships with non-Federal youth conservation corps or entities such 
as the Student Conservation Association, up to $1,000,000 of the funds 
available to the Bureau of Land Management under this Act, in order to 
increase the number of summer jobs available for youths, ages 15 
through 22, on Federal lands.
    (b) Within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
jointly submit a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
that includes the following--
        (1) the number of youths, ages 15 through 22, employed during 
    the summer of 1999, and the number estimated to be employed during 
    the summer of 2000, through the Youth Conservation Corps, the 
    Public Land Corps, or a related partnership with a State, local or 
    nonprofit youth conservation corps or other entities such as the 
    Student Conservation Association;
        (2) a description of the different types of work accomplished 
    by youths during the summer of 1999;
        (3) identification of any problems that prevent or limit the 
    use of the Youth Conservation Corps, the Public Land Corps, or 
    related partnerships to accomplish projects described in subsection 
    (a);
        (4) recommendations to improve the use and effectiveness of 
    partnerships described in subsection (a); and
        (5) an analysis of the maintenance backlog that identifies the 
    types of projects that the Youth Conservation Corps, the Public 
    Land Corps, or related partnerships are qualified to complete.
    Sec. 352. (a) North Pacific Research Board.--Section 401 of Public 
Law 105-83 is amended as follows:
        (1) In subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``available for appropriation, to the 
        extent provided in the subsequent appropriations Acts,'' and 
        inserting ``made available'';
            (B) by inserting ``To the extent provided in the subsequent 
        appropriations Acts,'' at the beginning of paragraph (1);
            (C) by inserting ``without further appropriation'' after 
        ``20 percent of such amounts shall be made available''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (f).
    Sec. 353. None of the funds in this Act may be used by the 
Secretary of the Interior to issue a prospecting permit for hardrock 
mineral exploration on Mark Twain National Forest land in the Current 
River/Jack's Fork River--Eleven Point Watershed (not including Mark 
Twain National Forest land in Townships 31N and 32N, Range 2 and Range 
3 West, on which mining activities are taking place as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act): Provided, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to segregate or 
withdraw land in the Mark Twain National Forest, Missouri under section 
204 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1714).
    Sec. 354. Public Law 105-83, the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act of November 17, 1997, title III, 
section 331 is hereby amended by adding before the period: ``: Provided 
further, That to carryout the provisions of this section, the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Forest Service may establish Transfer 
Appropriation Accounts (also known as allocation accounts) as needed''.
    Sec. 355. White River National Forest.--The Forest Service shall 
extend the public comment period on the White River National Forest 
plan revision for 90 days beyond February 9, 2000.
    Sec. 356. The first section of Public Law 99-215 (99 Stat. 1724), 
as amended by section 597 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1999 (Public Law 106-53), is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(c) The National Capital Planning Commission shall vacate and 
terminate an Easement and Declaration of Covenants, dated February 2, 
1989, conveyed by the owner of the adjacent real property pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1)(D) in exchange for, and not later than 30 days after, 
the vacation and termination of the Deed of Easement, dated January 4, 
1989, conveyed by the Maryland National Capital Park and Planning 
Commission pursuant to subsection (b)(1).
    ``(d) Effective on the date of the enactment of this subsection, 
the memorandum of May 7, 1985, and any amendments thereto, shall 
terminate.''.
    Sec. 357. (a) The Secretary of the Interior, as part of the 
President's budget submittal for fiscal year 2001, shall include a 
detailed plan for implementing the recommendations of the National 
Academy of Sciences/National Research Council's study entitled 
``Hardrock Mining on Federal Lands'', including information on the 
levels of funding and personnel utilized to administer the existing 
hardrock mining environmental and reclamation regulations of the Bureau 
of Land Management in fiscal years 1999 and 2000, as well as 
recommended appropriations for fiscal year 2001 and thereafter to 
achieve the improvements in the implementation of those regulations 
recommended by the study. The Secretary's plan shall also include 
proposed legislation deemed necessary to implement any of the study's 
recommendations including proposals addressing: (1) statutory 
authorities for Federal land managing agencies to issue administrative 
penalties for violations of their regulatory requirements, subject to 
appropriate due process; and (2) appropriate modifications to existing 
environmental laws to allow and promote the cleanup of abandoned mine 
sites in or adjacent to new mine areas.
    (b) None of the funds in this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
the Interior to promulgate final rules to revise 43 CFR subpart 3809, 
or to finalize the accompanying draft environmental impact statement.

     TITLE IV--MISSISSIPPI NATIONAL FOREST IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1999

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Mississippi National Forest 
Improvement Act of 1999''.

SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
        (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means the Agreement 
    described in section 405(a).
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
    Mississippi.
        (4) University.--The term ``University'' means the University 
    of Mississippi.
        (5) University land.--The term ``University land'' means land 
    described in section 404(a).

SEC. 403. CONVEYANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SITES AND SMALL PARCELS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may, under such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary may prescribe, sell or exchange any or all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the following tracts 
of land in the State:
        (1) Gulfport Laboratory Site, consisting of approximately 10 
    acres, as depicted on the map entitled ``Gulfport Laboratory Site, 
    May 21, 1998''.
        (2) Raleigh Dwelling Site No. 1, consisting of approximately 
    0.44 acre, as depicted on the map entitled ``Raleigh Dwelling Site 
    No. 1, May 21, 1998''.
        (3) Raleigh Dwelling Site No. 2, consisting of approximately 
    0.47 acre, as depicted on the map entitled ``Raleigh Dwelling Site 
    No. 2, May 21, 1998''.
        (4) Rolling Fork Dwelling Site, consisting of approximately 
    0.303 acre, as depicted on the map entitled ``Rolling Fork Dwelling 
    Site, May 21, 1998''.
        (5) Gloster Dwelling Site, consisting of approximately 0.55 
    acre, as depicted on the map entitled ``Gloster Dwelling Site, May 
    21, 1998''.
        (6) Gloster Office Site, consisting of approximately 1.00 acre, 
    as depicted on the map entitled ``Gloster Office Site, May 21, 
    1998''.
        (7) Gloster Work Center Site, consisting of approximately 2.00 
    acres, as depicted on the map entitled ``Gloster Work Center Site, 
    May 21, 1998''.
        (8) Holly Springs Dwelling Site, consisting of approximately 
    0.31 acre, as depicted on the map entitled ``Holly Springs Dwelling 
    Site, May 21, 1998''.
        (9) Isolated parcels of National Forest land located in 
    Township 5 South, Ranges 12 and 13 West, and in Township 3 North, 
    Range 12 West, sections 23, 33, and 34, St. Stephens Meridian.
        (10) Isolated parcels of National Forest land acquired after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act from the University of 
    Mississippi located in George and Jackson Counties.
        (11) Approximately 20 acres of National Forest land and 
    structures located in Township 6 North, Range 3 East, Section 30, 
    Washington Meridian.
    (b) Consideration.--Consideration for a sale or exchange of land 
under subsection (a) may include the acquisition of land, existing 
improvements, or improvements constructed to the specifications of the 
Secretary.
    (c) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
any sale or exchange of land under subsection (a) shall be subject to 
the laws (including regulations) applicable to the conveyance and 
acquisition of land for the National Forest System.
    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept a cash equalization payment in excess of 25 
percent of the value of land exchanged under subsection (a).
    (e) Solicitation of Offers.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary may solicit offers for the sale 
    or exchange of land under this section on such terms and conditions 
    as the Secretary may prescribe.
        (2) Rejection of offers.--The Secretary may reject any offer 
    made under this section if the Secretary determines that the offer 
    is not adequate or not in the public interest.
    (f) Deposit of Proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit the proceeds 
of a sale or exchange under subsection (a) in the fund established 
under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a) (commonly known as the ``Sisk 
Act'').
    (g) Use of Proceeds.--Funds deposited under subsection (f) shall be 
available until expended for--
        (1) the construction of a research laboratory and office 
    facility at the Forest Service administrative site located at the 
    Mississippi State University at Starkville, Mississippi;
        (2) the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
    administrative facilities in connection with units of the National 
    Forest System in the State; and
        (3) the acquisition of land and interests in land for units of 
    the National Forest System in the State.

SEC. 404. DE SOTO NATIONAL FOREST ADDITION.

    (a) Acquisition.--The Secretary may acquire for fair market value 
all right, title, and interest in land owned by the University of 
Mississippi within or near the boundaries of the De Soto National 
Forest in Stone, George, and Jackson Counties, Mississippi, comprising 
approximately 22,700 acres.
    (b) Boundaries.--
        (1) In general.--The boundaries of the De Soto National Forest 
    shall be modified as depicted on the map entitled ``De Soto 
    National Forest Boundary Modification--April, 1999'' to include any 
    acquisition of University land under this section.
        (2) Availability of map.--The map described in paragraph (1) 
    shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Chief 
    of the Forest Service in Washington, District of Columbia.
        (3) Allocation of moneys for federal purposes.--For the purpose 
    of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 
    (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundaries of the De Soto National Forest, 
    as modified by this subsection, shall be considered the boundaries 
    of the De Soto National Forest as of January 1, 1965.
    (c) Management.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall assume possession and all 
    management responsibilities for University land acquired under this 
    section on the date of acquisition.
        (2) Cooperative management agreement.--For the fiscal year 
    containing the date of the enactment of this Act and each of the 
    four fiscal years thereafter, the Secretary may enter into a 
    cooperative agreement with the University that provides for Forest 
    Service management of any University land acquired, or planned to 
    be acquired, under this section.
        (3) Administration.--University land acquired under this 
    section shall be--
            (A) subject to the Act of March 1, 1911 (16 U.S.C. 480 et 
        seq.) (commonly known as the ``Weeks Act'') and other laws 
        (including regulations) pertaining to the National Forest 
        System; and
            (B) managed in a manner that is consistent with the land 
        and resource management plan applicable to the De Soto National 
        Forest on the date of the enactment of this Act, until the plan 
        is revised in accordance with the regularly scheduled process 
        for revision.

SEC. 405. FRANKLIN COUNTY LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Agreement dated April 24, 1999, entered into 
between the Secretary, the State, and the Franklin County School Board 
that provides for the Federal acquisition of land owned by the State 
for the construction of the Franklin Lake Dam in Franklin County, 
Mississippi, is ratified and the parties to the Agreement are 
authorized to implement the terms of the Agreement.
    (b) Federal Grant.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to reservations and exceptions 
    contained in the Agreement, there is granted and quit claimed to 
    the State all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
    the federally-owned land described in Exhibit A to the Agreement.
        (2) Management.--The land granted to the State under the 
    Agreement shall be managed as school land grants.
    (c) Acquisition of State Land.--
        (1) In general.--All right, title, and interest in and to the 
    655.94 acres of land described as Exhibit B to the Agreement is 
    vested in the United States along with the right of immediate 
    possession by the Secretary.
        (2) Compensation.--Compensation owed to the State and the 
    Franklin County School Board for the land described in paragraph 
    (1) shall be provided in accordance with the Agreement.
    (d) Correction of Descriptions.--The Secretary and the Secretary of 
State of the State may, by joint modification of the Agreement, make 
minor corrections to the descriptions of the land described on Exhibits 
A and B to the Agreement.
    (e) Security Interest.--
        (1) In general.--Any cash equalization indebtedness owed to the 
    United States pursuant to the Agreement shall be secured only by 
    the timber on the granted land described in Exhibit A of the 
    Agreement.
        (2) Loss of security.--The United States shall have no recourse 
    against the State or the Franklin County School Board as the result 
    of the loss of the security described in paragraph (1) due to fire, 
    insects, natural disaster, or other circumstance beyond the control 
    of the State or Board.
        (3) Release of liens.--On payment of cash equalization as 
    required by the Agreement, the Secretary (or the Supervisor of the 
    National Forests in the State or other authorized representative of 
    the Secretary) shall release any liens on the granted land 
    described in Exhibit A of the Agreement.

SEC. 406. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS FROM LAND CONVEYANCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall deposit any funds received by 
the United States from land conveyances authorized under section 405 in 
the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a) (commonly 
known as the ``Sisk Act'').
    (b) Use.--Funds deposited in the fund under subsection (a) shall be 
available until expended for the acquisition of land and interests in 
land for the National Forest System in the State.
    (c) Partial Distribution.--Any funds received by the United States 
from land conveyances authorized under this Act shall not be subject to 
partial distribution to the State under--
        (1) the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the 
    Department of Agriculture for the fiscal year ending June 
    thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nine'', approved May 23, 1908 (35 
    Stat. 260, chapter 192; 16 U.S.C. 500);
        (2) section 13 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (36 Stat. 963, 
    chapter 186; 16 U.S.C. 500); or
        (3) any other law.

SEC. 407. PHOTOGRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS AND MAPS.

    Section 387 of the Act of February 16, 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1387) is 
amended in the first sentence--
        (1) by striking ``such'' the first place it appears and 
    inserting ``information such as geo-referenced data from all 
    sources,'';
        (2) by striking ``(not less than estimated cost of furnishing 
    such reproductions)''; and
        (3) by inserting after ``determine'' the following: ``(but not 
    less than the estimated costs of data processing, updating, 
    revising, reformatting, repackaging and furnishing the 
    reproductions and information)''.

SEC. 408. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

     TITLE V--UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA COMBINED BENEFIT FUND

    Sec. 501. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an amount of 
$68,000,000 in interest credited to the fund established by section 401 
of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 
1231) for fiscal years 1993 through 1995 not transferred to the 
Combined Fund identified in section 402(h)(2) of such Act shall be 
transferred to such Combined Fund within 30 days after the enactment of 
this Act to pay the amount of any shortfall in any premium account for 
any plan year under the Combined Fund. The entire amount transferred by 
this section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.