[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2989 Public Print (PP)]

  1st Session
                                H. R. 2989


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 23, 2003

         Ordered to be printed with the amendment of the Senate
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
    Making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation and 
Treasury, and independent agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
                   30, 2004, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <DELETED>That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of Transportation and 
Treasury and independent agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2004, and for other purposes, namely:

                       <DELETED>TITLE I</DELETED>

            <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION</DELETED>

               <DELETED>OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$93,577,000 (increased by $500,000), of which not to exceed $2,212,000 
shall be available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
exceed $841,000 shall be available for the immediate Office of the 
Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $15,560,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed $12,717,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Under Secretary of Transportation for 
Policy; not to exceed $8,630,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed 
$2,518,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Governmental Affairs; not to exceed $28,882,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to 
exceed $1,982,000 shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; 
not to exceed $1,447,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
Executive Secretariat; not to exceed $730,000 shall be available for 
the Board of Contract Appeals; not to exceed $1,268,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
Utilization; not to exceed $14,565,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Information Officer; and not to exceed $2,000,000 
shall be available for the Office of Intelligence and Security: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the 
Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided 
further, That no appropriation for any office shall be increased or 
decreased by more than 5 percent by all such transfers: Provided 
further, That any change in funding greater than 5 percent shall be 
submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000 shall be 
for allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, excluding 
fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited to this 
appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be available 
for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Office of Civil Rights</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
$8,569,000.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Transportation Planning, Research, and Development</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation 
planning, research, systems development, activities, and making grants, 
to remain available until expended, $8,336,000.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Working Capital Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays 
of the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $116,715,000, shall be paid 
from appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation: 
Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation: Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities: Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any 
program, budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act 
unless notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved 
by such Committees.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Minority Business Resource Center Program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $500,000, as authorized 
by 49 U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed, not to exceed $18,367,000. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, 
$400,000.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Minority Business Outreach</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource 
Center outreach activities, $3,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2005: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these 
funds may be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>New Headquarters Building</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Department of 
Transportation's new headquarters building and related services, 
$45,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>Operations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including operations and 
research activities related to commercial space transportation, 
administrative expenses for research and development, establishment of 
air navigation facilities, the operation (including leasing) and 
maintenance of aircraft, subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts 
and maps sold to the public, lease or purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by 
Public Law 104-264, $7,532,000,000, of which $4,043,000,000 shall be 
derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed 
$6,076,724,000 shall be available for air traffic services program 
activities; not to exceed $870,505,000 shall be available for aviation 
regulation and certification program activities; not to exceed 
$218,481,000 shall be available for research and acquisition program 
activities; not to exceed $11,776,000 shall be available for commercial 
space transportation program activities; not to exceed $49,783,000 
shall be available for financial services program activities; not to 
exceed $75,367,000 shall be available for human resources program 
activities; not to exceed $87,749,000 shall be available for regional 
coordination program activities; not to exceed $140,429,000 shall be 
available for staff offices; and not to exceed $29,681,000 shall be 
available for information services: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the Federal Aviation Administration to 
finalize or implement any regulation that would promulgate new aviation 
user fees not specifically authorized by law after the date of the 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, foreign authorities, other public authorities, and 
private sources, for expenses incurred in the provision of agency 
services, including receipts for the maintenance and operation of air 
navigation facilities, and for issuance, renewal or modification of 
certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair station 
certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing major 
repair or alteration forms: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $7,500,000 shall be for 
the contract tower cost-sharing program: Provided further, That funds 
may be used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-
setting organization to assist in the development of aviation safety 
standards: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall 
be available for new applicants for the second career training program: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for paying premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation 
Administration employee unless such employee actually performed work 
during the time corresponding to such premium pay: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to 
operate a manned auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous 
United States: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for 
aeronautical charting and cartography are available for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $50,000 may be transferred to the Aircraft Loan Purchase 
Guarantee Program: Provided further, That not later than March 1, 2004, 
the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Administrator 
of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall issue final regulations, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8335, establishing an exemption process allowing 
individual air traffic controllers to delay mandatory retirement until 
the employee reaches no later than 61 years of age: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided under this heading, $4,000,000 is available 
only for recruitment, personnel compensation and benefits, and related 
costs to raise the level of operational air traffic control supervisors 
to the level of 1,726: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be obligated or expended to execute or continue to implement a 
memorandum of understanding or memorandum of agreement (or any 
revisions thereto) with representatives of any FAA bargaining unit 
unless such document is filed in a central registry and catalogued in 
an automated, searchable database under the executive direction of 
appropriate management representatives at FAA headquarters: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Facilities and Equipment</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(airport and airway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of air navigation and experimental 
facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of 
title 49, United States Code, including initial acquisition of 
necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and service testing, 
including construction of test facilities and acquisition of necessary 
sites by lease or grant; construction and furnishing of quarters and 
related accommodations for officers and employees of the Federal 
Aviation Administration stationed at remote localities where such 
accommodations are not available; and the purchase, lease, or transfer 
of aircraft from funds available under this heading; to be derived from 
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, $2,900,000,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000), of which $2,479,158,800 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2006, and of which $420,841,200 
shall remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred in the establishment and modernization 
of air navigation facilities: Provided further, That upon initial 
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2005 President's budget, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress a 
comprehensive capital investment plan for the Federal Aviation 
Administration which includes funding for each budget line item for 
fiscal years 2005 through 2009, with total funding for each year of the 
plan constrained to the funding targets for those years as estimated 
and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided for ``In-plant NAS contract support 
services'', $7,000,000 is only for contract audit services provided by 
the Defense Contract Audit Agency: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided under this heading, $20,000,000 is available only for the 
Houston Area Air Traffic System: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to implement section 106 
of H.R. 2115, as passed the House of Representatives on June 12, 
2003.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Research, Engineering, and Development</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(airport and airway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
research, engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $108,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred for research, engineering, and 
development.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>General Provisions--Federal Aviation Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
airports may transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) instrument landing systems (along with associated 
approach lighting equipment and runway visual range equipment) which 
conform to FAA design and performance specifications, the purchase of 
which was assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, airport 
development aid program or airport improvement program grant: Provided, 
That, the Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such equipment, 
which shall thereafter be operated and maintained by FAA in accordance 
with agency criteria.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 102. None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
compensate in excess of 350 technical staff-years under the federally 
funded research and development center contract between the Federal 
Aviation Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems 
Development during fiscal year 2004.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 103. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used for engineering work related to an additional runway at Louis 
Armstrong New Orleans International Airport.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 104. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
pursue or adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to 
provide to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of 
funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the agency 
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' rates for 
these items or to grant assurances that require airport sponsors to 
provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic control 
facilities.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 105. None of the funds appropriated or limited by 
this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission 
rules at Teterboro Airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 106. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated for official travel by Federal departments and 
agencies may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent 
with Office of Management and Budget circular A-126 regarding official 
travel for Government personnel, to participate in the fractional 
aircraft ownership pilot program.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Limitation on Administrative Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the 
Federal Highway Administration, not to exceed $359,458,000, shall be 
paid in accordance with law from appropriations made available by this 
Act to the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway 
Administration.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Federal-Aid Highways</DELETED>

             <DELETED>(limitation on obligations)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for which are 
in excess of $33,385,000,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway 
safety construction programs for fiscal year 2004: Provided, That 
within the $33,385,000,000 obligation limitation on Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs, not more than 
$462,500,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution of 
programs for transportation research (sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 507, 
and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 of 
title 49, United States Code, as amended; and sections 5112 and 5204-
5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2004: Provided further, 
That this limitation on transportation research programs shall not 
apply to any authority previously made available for 
obligation.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Federal-Aid Highways</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(liquidation of contract authorization)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States 
Code, that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, including the 
National Scenic and Recreational Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 
148, not otherwise provided, including reimbursement for sums expended 
pursuant to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $34,000,000,000 or so much 
thereof as may be available in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, 
to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Federal-Aid Highways</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For an additional amount for Federal-aid highways and 
highway safety construction programs pursuant to title 23, United 
States Code, $400,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That amounts under this heading shall be 
distributed in the same manner as if made available under 23 U.S.C. 
110: Provided further, That the amounts under this heading shall not be 
subject to, or computed against, any obligation limitation or contract 
authority set forth in this Act or any other Act: Provided further, 
That, before such allocation and distribution are made, $133,450,000 
shall be retained for surface transportation projects.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>General Provisions--Federal Highway Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 110. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received 
by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data 
products, for necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may 
be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of 
reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds 
shall be subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways 
and highway safety construction.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Section 1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2032; 112 
        Stat. 191; 115 Stat. 871) is amended--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in paragraph (42), by striking 
                ``Fulton, Mississippi,'' the first time that it appears 
                and all that follows to the end of the paragraph and 
                inserting ``Fulton, Mississippi.''; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by adding at the end the 
                following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(45) The United States Route 78 Corridor from 
        Memphis, Tennessee, to Corridor X of the Appalachian 
        development highway system near Fulton, Mississippi, and 
        Corridor X of the Appalachian development highway system 
        extending from near Fulton, Mississippi, to near Birmingham, 
        Alabama.''.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Section 1105(e)(5) of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2032; 115 
        Stat. 872) is amended--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``(A) 
                In general.--The portions'' and all that follows 
                through the end of the first sentence and 
                inserting:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(A) In general.--The portions of the 
                routes referred to in subsection (c)(1), subsection 
                (c)(3) (relating solely to the Kentucky Corridor), 
                clauses (i), (ii), and (except with respect to 
                Georgetown County) (iii) of subsection (c)(5)(B), 
                subsection (c)(9), subsections (c)(18) and (c)(20), 
                subsection (c)(36), subsection (c)(37), subsection 
                (c)(40), subsection (c)(42), and subsection (c)(45) 
                that are not a part of the Interstate System are 
                designated as future parts of the Interstate System.''; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by adding the following at the end of 
                subparagraph (B)(i): ``The route referred to in 
                subsection (c)(45) is designated as Interstate Route I-
                22.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) item number 230 is amended by striking 
        ``Monroe County transportation improvements on Long Pond Road, 
        Pattonwood Road, and Lyell road'' and inserting ``Route 531/
        Brockport-Rochester Corridor in Monroe County, New 
        York''.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Item number 1149 is amended by striking 
        ``Traffic Mitigation Project on William Street and Losson Road 
        in Cheektowaga'' and inserting ``Study and implement mitigation 
        and diversion options for William Street and Broadway Street in 
        Cheektowaga, I-90 Corridor Study; Interchange 53 to Interchange 
        49, PIN 552830 and Cheektowaga Rails to Trails, PIN 
        575508''.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Item number 476 is amended by striking 
        ``Expand Perkins Road in Baton Rouge'' and inserting 
        ``Feasibility study, design, and construction of a connector 
        between Louisiana Highway 1026 and I-12 in Livingston 
        Parish''.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) Item 4 of the table contained in section 1602 
        of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, relating 
        to construction of a bike path in Michigan, is amended by 
        striking ``between Mount Clemens and New Baltimore'' and 
        inserting ``for the Macomb Orchard Trail in Macomb 
        County''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 113. Intelligent Transportation Systems 
appropriations made to the State of Wisconsin in Public Law 105-277, 
Public Law 106-69, and Public Law 107-87 shall not be subject to the 
limitations of Public Law 105-178, section 5208(d), 23 U.S.C. 502 
note.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding Public Law 105-178, section 
5208(d), Intelligent Transportation Systems appropriations for--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Wausau-Stevens Point-Wisconsin Rapids, 
        Wisconsin, in Public Law 105-277 and Public Law 106-69 shall be 
        available for use in the counties of Ashland, Barron, Bayfield, 
        Burnett, Chippewa, Douglas, Iron, Lincoln, Marathon, Polk, 
        Portage, Price, Rusk, Sawyer, Taylor, Washburn, Wood, Clark, 
        Langlade, and Oneida; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the City of Superior and Douglas County, 
        Wisconsin, in Public Law 106-69 shall be available for use in 
        the City of Superior and northern Wisconsin.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of assisting in the development, construction and financing 
of additional improvements to the Alameda Corridor, including 
construction of a truck expressway or other enhancements, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall modify the loan agreement entered into with the 
Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority pursuant to Public Law 104-
208 to revise the interest rate to equal the average yield, as of the 
date of modification of the loan agreement, on marketable Treasury 
securities of similar maturity to the expected remaining average life 
of the loan.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 116. (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall enter into an agreement with the State of Nevada, the State of 
Arizona, or both, to provide a method of funding for construction of a 
Hoover Dam Bypass Bridge from funds allocated for the Federal Lands 
Highway Program under section 202(b) of title 23, United States 
Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Methods of Funding.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) The agreement entered into under subsection 
        (a) shall provide for funding in a manner consistent with the 
        advance construction and debt instrument financing procedures 
        for Federal-aid highways set forth in section 115 and 122 of 
        title 23, except that the funding source may include funds made 
        available under the Federal Lands Highway Program.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Eligibility for funding under this subsection 
        shall not be construed as a commitment, guarantee, or 
        obligation on the part of the United States to provide for 
        payment of principal or interest of an eligible debt financing 
        instrument as so defined in section 122, nor create a right of 
        a third party against the United States for payment under an 
        eligible debt financing instrument. The agreement entered into 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall make specific reference to 
        this provision of law.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) The provisions of this section do not limit 
        the use of other available funds for which the project 
        referenced in subsection (a) is eligible.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Motor Carrier Safety</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(limitation on administrative expenses)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for administration of motor carrier 
safety programs and motor carrier safety research, pursuant to section 
104(a)(1)(B) of title 23, United States Code, not to exceed 
$236,753,000 shall be paid in accordance with law from appropriations 
made available by this Act and from any available take-down balances to 
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, together with advances 
and reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration: Provided, That such amounts shall be available to carry 
out the functions and operations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>National Motor Carrier Safety Program</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(liquidation of contract authorization)</DELETED>

             <DELETED>(limitation on obligations)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 
U.S.C. 31102, 31106 and 31309, $190,000,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are 
in excess of $190,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants'' and 
``Information Systems''.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>General Provisions--Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
                        Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 130. None of the funds appropriated, limited, or made 
available in this Act shall be used to implement or enforce any 
provision of the Final Rule issued on April 16, 2003 (Docket No. FMCSA-
97-2350) as it applies to operators of utility service vehicles as 
defined in 49 CFR section 395.2.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 131. Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall 
be subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 of 
Public Law 107-87, including that the Secretary submit a report to the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees annually on the safety and 
security of transportation into the United States by Mexico-domiciled 
motor carriers.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Operations and Research</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
Secretary, with respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 
of title 49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, 
United States Code, $206,178,000, of which $171,110,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, 
finalize, or implement any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of 
title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining 
to a grading standard that is different from the three grading 
standards (treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance) already in 
effect.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Operations and Research</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(liquidation of contract authorization)</DELETED>

             <DELETED>(limitation on obligations)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, 
$72,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 
2004, are in excess of $72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 
U.S.C. 403.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>National Driver Register</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
Secretary with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 
303 of title 49, United States Code, $3,600,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund, and to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Highway Traffic Safety Grants</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(liquidation of contract authorization)</DELETED>

             <DELETED>(limitation on obligations)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, and 410, to remain available until 
expended, $225,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or execution of programs the total obligations for which, in 
fiscal year 2004, are in excess of $225,000,000 for programs authorized 
under 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, and 410, of which $165,000,000 shall be for 
``Highway Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402, $20,000,000 shall be 
for ``Occupant Protection Incentive Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, and 
$40,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410: Provided further, That none of these 
funds shall be used for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling 
costs, or for office furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or 
private buildings or structures: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$8,150,000 of the funds made available for section 402, not to exceed 
$1,000,000 of the funds made available for section 405, and not to 
exceed $2,000,000 of the funds made available for section 410 shall be 
available to NHTSA for administering highway safety grants under 
chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $2,600,000 of the funds made available for section 157, and 
$2,600,000 of the funds made available for section 163, shall be 
available to NHTSA for administering highway safety grants under 
chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 
``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available 
for technical assistance to the States.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>General Provisions--National Highway Traffic Safety 
                        Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 140. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
States may use funds provided in this Act under section 402 of title 
23, United States Code, to produce and place highway safety public 
service messages in television, radio, cinema, and print media, and on 
the Internet in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of 
Transportation: Provided, That any state that uses funds for such 
public service messages shall submit to the Secretary and the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations a report describing and assessing 
the effectiveness of the messages.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 141. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
be used for the purpose of enforcing compliance with 49 CFR section 
579.24, promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration in accordance with section 30166(m) of title 49, United 
States Code, with respect to trailers rated at 26,000 pounds or less 
gross vehicle weight.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Safety and Operations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, $130,922,000, of which 
$11,712,000 shall remain available until expended.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Railroad Research and Development</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for railroad research and 
development, $28,225,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program</DELETED>

  <DELETED>(limitation on direct loans and loan guarantees)</DELETED>

<DELETED>     The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to 
the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to 
section 512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 
1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times 
as may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the 
guarantee of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 
through 513 of such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such 
guaranteed obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to 
section 502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the credit 
risk premium during fiscal year 2004.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Next Generation High-Speed Rail</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed 
Rail program as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 26101 and 26102, 
$28,250,000,  to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
                         Corporation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants 
to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, $900,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004, including $400,000,000 for 
quarterly grants for operating expenses, $373,000,000 for quarterly 
grants for capital expenses along the Northeast Corridor Mainline, and 
$127,000,000 for quarterly grants for general capital improvements: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall approve funding to 
cover operating losses and a long-distance train of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation only after receiving and reviewing a 
grant request for each specific train route: Provided further, That 
each such grant request shall be accompanied by a detailed financial 
analysis and revenue projection justifying the Federal support to the 
Secretary's satisfaction: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Transportation and the Amtrak Board of Directors shall ensure that, of 
the amount made available under this heading, sufficient sums are 
reserved to satisfy the contractual obligations of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation for commuter and intercity passenger 
rail service: Provided further, That within 60 days of enactment of 
this Act but not later than October 1, 2003, Amtrak shall transmit to 
the Secretary of Transportation and the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a business plan for operating and capital improvements 
to be funded in fiscal year 2004 under section 24104(a) of title 49, 
United States Code: Provided further, That the business plan shall 
include a description of the work to be funded, along with cost 
estimates and an estimated timetable for completion of the projects 
covered by this business plan: Provided further, That not later than 
October 1, 2003 and each month thereafter, Amtrak shall submit to the 
Secretary of Transportation and the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a supplemental report regarding the business plan, which 
shall describe the work completed to date, any changes to the business 
plan, and the reasons for such changes: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act may be used for operating expenses and capital 
projects not approved by the Secretary of Transportation nor on the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation's fiscal year 2004 business 
plan: Provided further, That none of the funds under this heading may 
be obligated or expended until the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation agrees to continue abiding by the provisions of paragraphs 
1, 2, 3, 5, 9, and 11 of the summary of conditions for the direct loan 
agreement of June 28, 2002, in the same manner as in effect on the date 
of enactment of this Act.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>General Provisions--Federal Railroad Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 150. To authorize the Surface Transportation Board to 
direct the continued operation of certain commuter rail passenger 
transportation operations in emergency situations, and for other 
purposes:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (a) Section 11123 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in subsection (a)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) by inserting ``failure of existing 
                commuter rail passenger transportation operations 
                caused by a cessation of service by the National 
                Railroad Passenger Corporation,'' after ``cessation of 
                operations,'';</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by striking ``or'' at the end of 
                paragraph (3);</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) by striking the period at the end of 
                paragraph (4)(C) and inserting ``; or''; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(5) in the case of a failure of existing freight 
        or commuter rail passenger transportation operations caused by 
        a cessation of service by the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation, direct the continuation of the operations and 
        dispatching, maintenance, and other necessary infrastructure 
        functions related to the operations.'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in subsection (b)(3)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) by striking ``When'' and inserting 
                ``(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), when''; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(B) In the case of a failure of existing freight or 
commuter rail passenger transportation operations caused by a cessation 
of service by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, the Board 
shall provide funding to fully reimburse the directed service provider 
for its costs associated with the activities directed under subsection 
(a), including the payment of increased insurance premiums. The Board 
shall order complete indemnification against any and all claims 
associated with the provision of service to which the directed rail 
carrier may be exposed.'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by adding the following new paragraph at the 
        end of subsection (c):</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(4) In the case of a failure of existing freight or 
commuter rail passenger transportation operations caused by cessation 
of service by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, the Board 
may not direct a rail carrier to undertake activities under subsection 
(a) to continue such operations unless--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) the Board first affirmatively finds that the 
        rail carrier is operationally capable of conducting the 
        directed service in a safe and efficient manner; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) the funding for such directed service 
        required by subparagraph (B) of subsection (b)(3) is provided 
        in advance in appropriations Acts.''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) by adding at the end the following new 
        subsections:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(e) For purposes of this section, the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation and any entity providing commuter rail passenger 
transportation shall be considered rail carriers subject to the Board's 
jurisdiction.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(f) For purposes of this section, the term `commuter 
rail passenger transportation' has the meaning given that term in 
section 24102(4).''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Section 24301(c) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``11123,'' after ``except for 
sections''.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Administrative Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal 
Transit Administration's programs, $14,500,000: Provided, That no more 
than $72,500,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds available not to exceed 
$948,000 shall be available for the Office of the Administrator; not to 
exceed $6,126,000 shall be available for the Office of Administration; 
not to exceed $3,848,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Counsel; not to exceed $1,067,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Communication and Congressional Affairs; not to exceed $7,303,000 shall 
be available for the Office of Program Management; not to exceed 
$6,027,000 shall be available for the Office of Budget and Policy; not 
to exceed $4,328,000 shall be available for the Office of Demonstration 
and Innovation; not to exceed $2,657,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Civil Rights; not to exceed $3,732,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Planning; not to exceed $17,697,000 shall be available 
for regional offices; and not to exceed $16,567,000 shall be available 
for the central account: Provided further, That the Administrator is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for an office of the Federal 
Transit Administration: Provided further, That no appropriation for an 
office shall be increased or decreased by more than 3 percent by all 
such transfers: Provided further, That any change in funding greater 
than 3 percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for travel expenses: Provided further, 
That of the funds in this Act available for the execution of contracts 
under section 5327(c) of title 49, United States Code, $2,000,000 shall 
be reimbursed to the Department of Transportation's Office of Inspector 
General for costs associated with audits and investigations of transit-
related issues, including reviews of new fixed guideway systems: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,200,000 for the National 
transit database shall remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Formula Grants</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 
5310, 5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $767,800,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,839,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>University Transportation Research</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, 
$1,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That no more 
than $6,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Transit Planning and Research</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 
5305, 5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $24,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$122,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these purposes: 
Provided further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural 
transportation assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)), $4,000,000 is 
available to carry out programs under the National Transit Institute 
(49 U.S.C. 5315), $8,250,000 is available to carry out transit 
cooperative research programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)), $60,385,600 is 
available for metropolitan planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305), 
$12,614,400 is available for State planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and 
$31,500,000 is available for the national planning and research program 
(49 U.S.C. 5314).</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Trust Fund Share of Expenses</DELETED>

       <DELETED>(liquidation of contract authorization)</DELETED>

                <DELETED>(highway trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 
U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and 
sections 3037 and 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $5,807,020,000 to remain 
available until expended, and to be derived from the Mass Transit 
Account of the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That $3,071,200,000 shall 
be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's formula grants account: 
Provided further, That $97,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's transit planning and research account: Provided 
further, That $58,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's administrative expenses account: Provided further, 
That $4,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
university transportation research account: Provided further, That 
$64,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job 
access and reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That 
$2,507,220,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
capital investment grants account.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Capital Investment Grants</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 
5318, and 5327, $599,280,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $3,106,500,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes: Provided further, That there shall be 
available for fixed guideway modernization, $1,214,400,000; there shall 
be available for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses 
and related equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, 
$677,700,000; and there shall be available for new fixed guideway 
systems $1,214,400,000, to be available as follows:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Baltimore, MD, Central Light Rail Double Track 
        Project, $40,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    BART San Francisco Airport (SFO), CA, Extension 
        Project, $100,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Boston, MA, Silver Line Phase III, 
        $3,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Charlotte, NC, South Corridor Light Rail Project, 
        $4,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Chicago Transit Authority, IL, Douglas Branch 
        Reconstruction, $85,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Chicago, IL, Metra Commuter Rail Expansions and 
        Extensions, $52,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Chicago, IL, Ravenswood Reconstruction, 
        $45,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Dallas, TX, North Central Light Rail Extension, 
        $30,161,283;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Denver, CO, Southeast Corridor LRT (T-REX), 
        $80,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    East Side Access Project, NY, Phase I, 
        $70,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Ft. Lauderdale, FL, Tri-Rail Commuter Project, 
        $18,410,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Las Vegas, NV, Resort Corridor Fixed Guideway, 
        $15,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Los Angeles, CA, Eastside Light Rail Transit 
        System, $10,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Memphis, TN, Medical Center Rail Extension, 
        $9,247,588;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Minneapolis, MN, Hiawatha Corridor Light Rail 
        Transit (LRT), $74,980,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    New Orleans, LA, Canal Street Streetcar Project, 
        $23,921,373;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    New York, Second Avenue Subway, 
        $3,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Newark, NJ, Rail Link (NERL) MOS1, 
        $22,566,022;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Northern, NJ, Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (MOS2), 
        $100,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Phoenix, AZ, Central Phoenix/East Valley Light 
        Rail Transit Project, $13,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Pittsburgh, PA, Stage II Light Rail Transit 
        Reconstruction, $32,243,422;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Portland, OR, Interstate MAX Light Rail Extension, 
        $77,500,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Raleigh, NC, Triangle Transit Authority Regional 
        Rail Project, $3,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Salt Lake City, UT, Medical Center LRT Extension, 
        $30,663,361;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    San Diego, CA, Mission Valley East Light Rail 
        Transit Extension, $65,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    San Diego, CA, Oceanside-Escondido Rail Project, 
        $48,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    San Juan, PR, Tren Urbano Rapid Transit System, 
        $43,540,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Seattle, WA, Sound Transit Central Link Initial 
        Segment, $15,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Washington, DC/MD, Largo Extension, 
        $65,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Washington, DC/VA, Dulles Corridor Rapid Transit 
        Project, $25,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Hawaii and Alaska Ferry Boats, 
        $10,296,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Oversight set-aside, $12,144,000; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    San Francisco, CA, Muni Third Street Light Rail 
        Project, $10,000,000:</DELETED>
<DELETED>Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for the purpose of calculating the non-New Starts share of the 
total project cost of both phases of San Francisco Muni's Third Street 
Light Rail Transit project for fiscal year 2004, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall include all non-New Starts contributions made 
towards Phase 1 of the two-phase project for engineering, final design 
and construction, and also shall allow non-New Starts funds expended on 
one element or phase of the project to be used to meet the non-New 
Starts share requirement of any element or phase of the project: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act for the 
San Francisco Muni's Third Street Light Rail Transit Project shall be 
obligated if the Federal Transit Administration determines that the 
project is found to be ``not recommended'' after evaluation and 
computation of revised transportation system user benefit 
data.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the 
Federal Transit Act of 1998, $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no more than $85,000,000 of budget authority 
shall be available for these purposes: Provided further, That up to 
$200,000 of the funds provided under this heading may be used by the 
Federal Transit Administration for technical assistance and support and 
performance reviews of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants 
program.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>General Provisions--Federal Transit Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 160. The limitations on obligations for the programs 
of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority 
under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to 
any other authority previously made available for obligation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 161. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except for fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available 
by this Act under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment 
grants'' for projects specified in this Act or identified in reports 
accompanying this Act not obligated by September 30, 2006, and other 
recoveries, shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 
5309.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 162. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
funds appropriated before October 1, 2003, under any section of chapter 
53 of title 49, United States Code, that remain available for 
expenditure may be transferred to and administered under the most 
recent appropriation heading for any such section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 163. None of the funds in this Act shall be made 
available for the design, construction, or maintenance of any segment 
of a light rail system in Houston that has not been specifically 
approved by a majority of the participating voters in the Houston 
Metropolitan Transit Authority service area in a referendum.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 164. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available for the Roaring Fork Transportation Authority, 
Colorado, under Public Laws 106-69 and 106-346 shall be made available 
for the Roaring Fork Valley Bus Rapid Transit project.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is 
hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds 
and borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Operations and Maintenance</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(harbor maintenance trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of 
those portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by 
the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $14,700,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>MARITIME ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Maritime Security Program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-
flag merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $98,700,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Operations and Training</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of operations and training 
activities authorized by law, $105,897,000, of which $22,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2004, for salaries and benefits of 
employees of the United States Merchant Marine Academy; of which 
$13,000,000 shall remain available until expended for capital 
improvements at the United States Merchant Marine Academy; of which 
$9,063,000 shall remain available until expended for the State Maritime 
Schools Schoolship Maintenance and Repair; of which $500,000 shall 
remain available until expended for the evaluation and provision of the 
fourteen commercially strategic ports; and of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2005, for Maritime Security 
Professional Training in support of Section 109 of the Maritime 
Transportation Security Act of 2002.</DELETED>

                    <DELETED>Ship Disposal</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete 
vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime 
Administration, $14,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>General Provisions--Maritime Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 170. Notwithstanding any other provision of this or 
any other Act, the Maritime Administration is authorized to furnish 
utilities and services and make necessary repairs in connection with 
any lease, contract, or occupancy involving Government property under 
control of the Maritime Administration, and payments received therefore 
shall be credited to the appropriation charged with the cost thereof: 
Provided, That rental payments under any such lease, contract, or 
occupancy for items other than such utilities, services, or repairs 
shall be deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. No 
obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year from the 
construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, or 
otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations contained in 
this Act or in any prior Appropriations Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 171. Chapter 10 of title I of the Emergency Wartime 
Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 108-11) is amended by 
striking ``For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005:'' and 
inserting ``For the cost of guaranteed loans and associated 
administrative expenses, as authorized, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2005, of which up to $4,498,000 may be 
used for associated administrative expenses:''.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Research and Special Programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
Research and Special Programs Administration, $47,018,000, of which 
$645,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which 
$2,437,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, 
That up to $1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall 
be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting 
receipts: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Pipeline Safety</DELETED>

               <DELETED>(pipeline safety fund)</DELETED>

          <DELETED>(oil spill liability trust fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the 
pipeline safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline 
safety program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$64,054,000, of which $9,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2006; of which $55,054,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety 
Fund, of which $21,786,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2006.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Emergency Preparedness Grants</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(emergency preparedness fund)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), 
$200,000, to be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain 
available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That not more than 
$14,300,000 shall be made available for obligation in fiscal year 2004 
from amounts made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i), 5127(c), and 5127(d): 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 
5116(i), 5127(c), and 5127(d) shall be made available for obligation by 
individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, or his 
designee.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
to carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $55,000,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3) to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the Government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of 
title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and 
unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air carriers and 
ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation 
Board, including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $19,521,000: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to 
exceed $1,050,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2004, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $18,471,000.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY</DELETED>

                <DELETED>DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices 
including operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and 
improvements of, and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, 
real properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the 
performance of official business; not to exceed $3,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2005 for information technology 
modernization requirements; not to exceed $150,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate, $175,809,000: Provided, That 
no less than $21,855,000 is for the Office of Foreign Assets Control: 
Provided further, That of these amounts $2,900,000 is available for 
grants to State and local law enforcement groups to help fight money 
laundering: Provided further, That of these amounts, $3,393,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2005, shall be for the Treasury-
wide Financial Statement Audit Program, of which such amounts as may be 
necessary may be transferred to accounts of the Department's offices 
and bureaus to conduct audits: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other provided in this 
Act.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments 
                           Programs</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For development and acquisition of automatic data 
processing equipment, software, and services for the Department of the 
Treasury, $36,653,000, to remain available until September 30, 2006: 
Provided, That these funds shall be transferred to accounts and in 
amounts as necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Department's 
offices, bureaus, and other organizations: Provided further, That this 
transfer authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided in this Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Office of Inspector General</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and not to exceed 
$100,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of 
the Treasury, $12,792,000.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General 
for Tax Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 
1978, as amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement 
only for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 
U.S.C. 1343(b)); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not 
to exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; and not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $128,034,000.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Air Transportation Stabilization Program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to administer the Air 
Transportation Stabilization Board established by section 102 of the 
Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (Public Law 107-
42), $2,538,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the 
Treasury Building and Annex, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2006.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of 
non-Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $57,571,000, of which not to 
exceed $4,500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2006; and 
of which $8,152,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2005: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to 
procure personal services contracts.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management 
Service, $228,558,000, of which not to exceed $9,220,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2006, for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE BUREAU</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, $80,000,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for 
cooperative research and development programs for Laboratory Services; 
and provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with 
or without reimbursement.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>UNITED STATES MINT</DELETED>

      <DELETED>United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, 
the United States Mint is provided funding through the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments. The aggregate amount 
of new liabilities and obligations incurred during fiscal year 2004 
under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and protective service 
capital investments of the United States Mint shall not exceed 
$40,652,000. From amounts in the United States Mint Public Enterprise 
Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to the Comptroller 
General an amount not to exceed $375,000 to reimburse the Comptroller 
General for the cost of a study to be contracted for by the Comptroller 
General on the potential and cost-effectiveness of expanded use of pre-
made ``blanks'' by the United States Mint in the production of 
circulating coins. The amounts reimbursed to the Comptroller General 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be deposited to the appropriation of 
the General Accounting Office then available and remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>BUREAU OF THE PUBLIC DEBT</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Administering the Public Debt</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt 
issues of the United States, $178,052,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses, and of which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for systems modernization: Provided, That the sum 
appropriated herein from the General Fund for fiscal year 2004 shall be 
reduced by not more than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees 
and Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2004 appropriation from the General 
Fund estimated at $173,652,000. In addition, $40,000 to be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for 
administrative and personnel expenses for financial management of the 
Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Processing, Assistance, and Management</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
pre-filing taxpayer assistance and education, filing and account 
services, shared services support, general management and 
administration; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, $4,037,834,000, of 
which $4,250,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly 
Program, of which $8,000,000 shall be available for low-income taxpayer 
clinic grants, and of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Tax Law Enforcement</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement activities; 
securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; conducting a 
document matching program; resolving taxpayer problems through prompt 
identification, referral and settlement; compiling statistics of income 
and conducting compliance research; funding essential earned income tax 
credit compliance and error reduction initiatives; purchase (for 
police-type use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
$4,221,408,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2006, for research, and of which not to 
exceed $10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security 
Administration for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the 
Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33).</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Information Systems</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,628,739,000, of which $165,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2005.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Business Systems Modernization</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$429,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2006, for the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, 
including contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That none of these funds may be obligated until 
the Internal Revenue Service submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations, and such Committees approve, a plan for expenditure 
that: (1) meets the capital planning and investment control review 
requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget, 
including Circular A-11 part 3; (2) complies with the Internal Revenue 
Service's enterprise architecture, including the modernization 
blueprint; (3) conforms with the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise 
life cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the Internal Revenue 
Service, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of Management 
and Budget; (5) has been reviewed by the General Accounting Office; and 
(6) complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and 
systems acquisition management practices of the Federal 
Government.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Health Insurance Tax Credit Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to implement the health insurance 
tax credit included in the Trade Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-210), 
$35,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 202. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a 
training program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are 
trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the 
taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 203. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and 
enforce policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality 
of taxpayer information.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 204. Funds made available by this or any other Act to 
the Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities 
and increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help 
line service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the 
improvement of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and 
staff to improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line 
service.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 205. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury 
in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 206. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in 
this Act made available to the Departmental Offices--Salaries and 
Expenses, Office of Inspector General, Financial Management Service, 
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 207. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation 
made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 208. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or 
otherwise available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of 
Engraving and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve 
note.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 209. The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds 
from ``Salaries and Expenses'', Financial Management Service, to the 
Debt Services Account as necessary to cover the costs of debt 
collection: Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such 
Salaries and Expenses account from debt collections received in the 
Debt Services Account.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 210. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Senate Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 211. For fiscal year 2004 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, there are appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury 
such sums as may be necessary to reimburse financial institutions in 
their capacity as depositaries and financial agents of the United 
States for all services required or directed by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, or the Secretary's designee, to be performed by such 
financial institutions on behalf of the Department of the Treasury or 
other Federal agencies, including services rendered prior to fiscal 
year 2004.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>TITLE III--POSTAL SERVICE</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Payment to the Postal Service Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone 
on free and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of 
section 2401 of title 39, United States Code, $65,521,000, of which 
$36,521,000 shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 
2004: Provided, That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind 
shall continue to be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and 
rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any individual participating in a State 
or local program of child support enforcement, a fee for information 
requested or provided concerning an address of a postal customer: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post offices 
in fiscal year 2004.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>TITLE IV--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS 
                APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Compensation of the President</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For compensation of the President, including an expense 
allowance at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 
102, $450,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for 
official expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any 
unused amount shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of 
title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to 
the President.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>White House Office</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized 
by law, including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized 
by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided 
in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not 
to exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available 
for allocation within the Executive Office of the President, 
$66,057,000: Provided, That $8,650,000 of the funds appropriated shall 
be available for reimbursements to the White House Communications 
Agency.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Executive Residence at the White House</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>operating expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, 
refurnishing, improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric 
power and fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and 
official entertainment expenses of the President, $12,501,000, to be 
expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 
112-114.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>reimbursable expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence 
at the White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>White House Repair and Restoration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the 
Executive Residence at the White House, $4,225,000, to remain available 
until expended, for required maintenance, safety and health issues, and 
continued preventative maintenance.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Council of Economic Advisers</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisors 
in carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 
U.S.C. 1021), $4,000,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Office of Policy Development</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
U.S.C. 107, $4,109,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>National Security Council</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$9,000,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Office of Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $82,826,000, of which $17,470,000 
shall remain available until expended for the Capital Investment Plan 
for continued modernization of the information technology 
infrastructure within the Executive Office of the President.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Office of Management and Budget</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and 
Budget, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and to carry out the provisions of chapter 
35 of title 44, United States Code, $62,772,000 (reduced by $500,000), 
of which not to exceed $1,500 shall be available for official 
representation expenses: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 
1301(a), appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under 
the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be 
expended for the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of 
witnesses, except for testimony of officials of the Office of 
Management and Budget, before the Committees on Appropriations or the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That the preceding shall not apply to printed hearings 
released by the Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act may be available to pay the salary or expenses 
of any employee of the Office of Management and Budget who, after 
February 15, 2003, calculates, prepares, or approves any tabular or 
other material that proposes the sub-allocation of budget authority or 
outlays by the Committees on Appropriations among their 
subcommittees.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Office of National Drug Control Policy</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 
1701 et seq.) as amended; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception 
and representation expenses; and for participation in joint projects or 
in the provision of services on matters of mutual interest with 
nonprofit, research, or public organizations or agencies, with or 
without reimbursement, $28,790,000; of which $2,850,000 shall remain 
available until expended, consisting of $1,350,000 for policy research 
and evaluation, and $1,500,000 for the National Alliance for Model 
State Drug Laws: Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, 
hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and 
private, without fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or 
facilitating the work of the Office.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology 
Assessment Center for research activities pursuant to the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 
1701 et seq.) as amended, $40,000,000, which shall remain available 
until expended, consisting of $18,000,000 for counternarcotics research 
and development projects, and $22,000,000 for the continued operation 
of the technology transfer program: Provided, That the $18,000,000 for 
counternarcotics research and development projects shall be available 
for transfer to other Federal departments or agencies.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Federal Drug Control Programs</DELETED>

    <DELETED>high intensity drug trafficking areas program</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, 
$226,350,000, for drug control activities consistent with the approved 
strategy for each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Areas, of which no less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State 
and local entities for drug control activities, which shall be 
obligated within 120 days of the date of the enactment of this Act: 
Provided, That up to 49 percent, to remain available until September 
30, 2005, may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a 
rate to be determined by the Director, of which not less than 
$2,100,000 shall be used for auditing services and associated 
activities, and at least $500,000 of the $2,100,000 shall be used to 
develop and implement a data collection system to measure the 
performance of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program: 
Provided further, That High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Programs 
designated as of September 30, 2003, shall be funded at no less than 
the fiscal year 2003 initial allocation levels unless the Director 
submits to the Committees on Appropriations, and the Committees 
approve, justification for changes in those levels based on clearly 
articulated priorities for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
Programs, as well as published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness: Provided further, That no funds 
of an amount in excess of the fiscal year 2004 budget request shall be 
obligated prior to the approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Other Federal Drug Control Programs</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign 
for youth, and for other purposes, authorized by (21 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.) as amended, $230,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which the following amounts are available as follows: $150,000,000 to 
support a national media campaign; $70,000,000 for a program of 
assistance and matching grants to local coalitions and other 
activities, as authorized in chapter 2 of the National Narcotics 
Leadership Act of 1988, as amended; $4,500,000 for the Counterdrug 
Intelligence Executive Secretariat; $2,000,000 for evaluations and 
research related to National Drug Control Program performance measures; 
$1,000,000 for the National Drug Court Institute; $1,500,000 for the 
United States Anti-Doping Agency for anti-doping activities; and 
$1,000,000 for the United States membership dues to the World Anti-
Doping Agency: Provided, That such funds may be transferred to other 
Federal departments and agencies to carry out such activities: Provided 
further, That of the amounts appropriated for a national media 
campaign, no less than 77 percent shall be used for the purchase of 
advertising time and space for the national media campaign.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Unanticipated Needs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000.</DELETED>

<DELETED>Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence 
                    of the Vice President</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to 
provide assistance to the President in connection with specially 
assigned functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
U.S.C. 106, including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 
106, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that 
section; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,461,000.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>operating expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to 
the extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the Vice President, to 
be accounted for solely on his certificate, $331,000: Provided, That 
advances or repayments or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE V--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES</DELETED>

     <DELETED>ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE 
                            BOARD</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and 
Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 
of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended $5,401,000: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited 
to this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses, to be available for the purpose of this account.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation 
Safety Board, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-
5902) $76,679,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for 
official reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Emergency Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation 
Safety Board for accident investigations, $600,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds shall be available only to 
the extent necessary to restore the balance of the emergency fund to 
$2,000,000 (29 U.S.C. 1118(b)).</DELETED>

 <DELETED>COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY 
                           DISABLED</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From 
People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-
28, $4,725,000.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $50,440,000, of 
which no less than $6,389,900 shall be available for internal automated 
data processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002, $5,000,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Election Reform Programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out a program of 
requirements payments to States as authorized by Section 257 of the 
Help America Vote Act of 2002, $495,000,000: Provided, That no more 
that </DELETED>\<DELETED>1/10</DELETED>\ <DELETED>of 1 percent of funds 
available for requirements payments under Section 257 of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002 shall be allocated to any territory.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
Federal Labor Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
Numbered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $29,611,000: Provided, 
That public members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid 
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the 
Government service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received 
from fees charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management 
relations conferences shall be credited to and merged with this 
account, to be available without further appropriation for the costs of 
carrying out these conferences.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission 
as authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, $18,471,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Real Property Activities</DELETED>

              <DELETED>(federal buildings fund)</DELETED>

      <DELETED>(limitations on availability of revenue)</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For an additional amount to be deposited in, and to be 
used for the purposes of, the Fund established pursuant to section 
210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 
as amended (40 U.S.C. 592), $247,350,000. The revenues and collections 
deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of 
real property management and related activities not otherwise provided 
for, including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally 
owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of 
Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies 
(including space adjustments and telecommunications relocation 
expenses) in connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of 
space; contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing 
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration of federally owned 
buildings including grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and 
safeguarding of sites; maintenance, preservation, demolition, and 
equipment; acquisition of buildings and sites by purchase, 
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options 
to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of federally 
owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects by 
contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings (including 
equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, interest, and 
any other obligations for public buildings acquired by installment 
purchase and purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of 
$6,557,518,000, of which: (1) $406,168,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction (including funds for sites and expenses and 
associated design and construction services) of additional projects at 
the following locations:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    New Construction:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    California:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    San Diego, Border Station, 
                $34,211,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Georgia:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Atlanta, Tuttle Building Annex, 
                $10,600,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Maine:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Jackman, Border Station, 
                $7,712,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Maryland:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Suitland, United States Census Bureau, 
                $146,451,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Michigan:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Detroit, Ambassador Bridge Border Station, 
                $25,387,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    New York:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Champlain, Border Station, 
                $31,031,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Texas:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Del Rio, Border Station, 
                $23,966,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Eagle Pass, Border Station, 
                $31,980,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Houston, Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
                $58,080,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    McAllen, Border Station, 
                $17,938,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Washington:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Blaine, Border Station, 
                $9,812,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Nonprospectus Construction, $9,000,000:</DELETED>
<DELETED>Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent of the 
amounts included in an approved prospectus, if required, unless advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater 
amount: Provided further, That all funds for direct construction 
projects shall expire on September 30, 2005, and remain in the Federal 
Buildings Fund except for funds for projects as to which funds for 
design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to 
such date; (2) $1,010,454,000 shall remain available until expended for 
repairs and alterations, which includes associated design and 
construction services:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Colorado:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Denver, Byron G. Rogers Federal Building--
                Courthouse, $39,436,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    District of Columbia:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    320 First Street, $7,485,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Eisenhower Executive Office Building, 
                $65,757,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Federal Office Building 8, 
                $134,872,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Main Interior Building, 
                $15,603,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Fire & Life Safety, $68,188,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Georgia:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Atlanta, Richard B. Russell Federal 
                Building, $32,173,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Illinois:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Chicago, Dirksen Courthouse & Kluczynski 
                Federal Building, $24,056,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Springfield, Paul H. Findley Federal 
                Building--Courthouse, $6,183,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Massachusetts:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Boston, John W. McCormack Post Office and 
                Courthouse, $73,037,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    New York:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Brooklyn, Emanuel Celler Courthouse, 
                $65,511,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    North Dakota:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Fargo, Federal Building--Post Office, 
                $5,801,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Ohio:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Columbus, John W. Bricker Federal 
                Building, $10,707,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Washington:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Auburn, Building 7, Auburn Federal 
                Building, $18,315,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Seattle, Henry M. Jackson Federal 
                Building, $6,868,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Special Emphasis Programs:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, 
                $5,000,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Energy Program, $5,000,000.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    Glass Fragmentation Program, 
                $20,000,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Design Program, $41,462,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    Basic Repairs and Alterations, 
        $365,000,000:</DELETED>
<DELETED>Provided further, That of the funds provided in this Act for 
the repair of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, $30,757,000 is 
not available for obligation until 15 days after the Executive Office 
of the President submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
regarding the use of non-Federal funding in renovation and furnishing 
efforts for the Eisenhower Executive Office Building: Provided further, 
That funds made available in any previous Act in the Federal Buildings 
Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be 
limited to the amount identified for each project, except each project 
in any previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That additional 
projects for which prospectuses have been fully approved may be funded 
under this category only if advance approval is obtained from the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the amounts 
provided in this or any prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may 
be used to fund costs associated with implementing security 
improvements to buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for 
security in accordance with current law and in compliance with the 
reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the House and 
Senate: Provided further, That the difference between the funds 
appropriated and expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, 
under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred to 
Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in 
prospectus projects: Provided further, That all funds for repairs and 
alterations prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 2005 and 
remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or 
in part prior to such date: Provided further, That the amount provided 
in this or any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used 
to pay claims against the Government arising from any projects under 
the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized 
increases in prospectus projects; (3) $169,745,000 for installment 
acquisition payments including payments on purchase contracts which 
shall remain available until expended; (4) $3,308,187,000 for rental of 
space which shall remain available until expended; and (5) 
$1,608,708,000 for building operations which shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That funds available to the General 
Services Administration shall not be available for expenses of any 
construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a 
prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as 
amended, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses for the development of 
a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That funds available in the 
Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable 
special services to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended 
(40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2)) and amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control as may be appropriate 
to enable the United States Secret Service to perform its protective 
functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such 
revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues and 
collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 
2004, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2)) 
in excess of $6,557,518,000 shall remain in the Fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations 
Acts.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>General Activities</DELETED>

               <DELETED>government-wide policy</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided 
for, for Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated 
with the management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, telecommunications, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $56,383,000.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>operating expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided 
for, for Government-wide activities associated with utilization and 
donation of surplus personal property; disposal of real property; 
telecommunications, information technology management, and related 
technology activities; providing Internet access to Federal information 
and services; agency-wide policy direction and management, and Board of 
Contract Appeals; accounting, records management, and other support 
services incident to adjudication of Indian Tribal Claims by the United 
States Court of Federal Claims; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; and not to exceed $7,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $79,110,000.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $39,169,000: Provided, That 
not to exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information 
and detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>electronic government fund</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in support of interagency projects 
that enable the Federal Government to expand its ability to conduct 
activities electronically, through the development and implementation 
of innovative uses of the Internet and other electronic methods, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds may be transferred to Federal agencies to carry out the purposes 
of the Fund: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act: Provided 
further, That such transfers may not be made until 10 days after a 
proposed spending plan and justification for each project to be 
undertaken has been submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>allowances and office staff for former presidents</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 
1958, as amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, 
$3,393,000: Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall 
transfer to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out the provisions of such Acts.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>General Provisions--General Services Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 501. The appropriate appropriation or fund available 
to the General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost 
of operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 502. Funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall be available for the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 503. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made 
available for fiscal year 2004 for Federal Buildings Fund activities 
may be transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary 
to meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers 
shall be approved in advance by the Committees on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 504. No funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to transmit a fiscal year 2005 request for United States 
Courthouse construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide 
standards for construction as established and approved by the General 
Services Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, 
and the Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2005 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 505. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 506. Funds provided to other Government agencies by 
the Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 
section 110 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 757) and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of the Clinger-Cohen 
Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1424(b) and 1428), for performance of pilot 
information technology projects which have potential for Government-
wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from any savings 
actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the extent 
feasible.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 507. From funds made available under the heading 
``Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', 
claims against the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct 
construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 508. None of the funds in this Act may be used by the 
General Services Administration to develop or implement a mandatory 
system without exceptions that requires agencies Government-wide to use 
a specific electronic travel solution or the eTravel Service: Provided, 
That this section shall also apply to the Department of Transportation 
in any development of electronic travel solutions for its modal 
administrations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 509. (a) The Administrator of General Services shall 
carry out the authority of the Election Assistance Commission to make 
election assistance payments under subtitle D of title II of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002, including the authority under such subtitle 
to receive statements and applications from entities seeking such 
payments and reports from entities receiving such payments.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The authority of the Administrator of General Services 
under subsection (a) shall apply with respect to amounts appropriated 
for fiscal year 2004 and amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2003 
which remain unobligated and unexpended at the end of fiscal year 2003, 
except that this authority shall expire upon the earlier of--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the expiration of the 3-month period which 
        begins on the date on which all members of the Election 
        Assistance Commission are appointed; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) June 30, 2004.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Upon the appointment of all members of the Election 
Assistance Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
transmit to the Commission all statements, applications, and reports 
received by the Administrator in carrying out this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 510. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used by the General Services Administration to establish a quick 
response team processing center on East Brainerd Road in Chattanooga, 
Tennessee.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit 
Systems Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $32,877,000, together with not to 
exceed $2,626,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement 
appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection 
Board.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN NATIONAL 
               ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FOUNDATION</DELETED>

    <DELETED>Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National 
               Environmental Policy Trust Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and 
Excellence in National Environmental Policy Trust Fund, pursuant to the 
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental 
and Native American Public Policy Act of 1992 (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), 
$1,300,000, to remain available until expended of which $100,000 shall 
be used to conduct financial audits pursuant to the Accountability of 
Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289) notwithstanding sections 8 
and 9 of Public Law 102-259: Provided, That up to 70 percent of such 
funds may be transferred by the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and 
Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for the 
necessary expenses of the Native Nations Institute.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund 
to carry out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and 
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $1,300,000, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Operating Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in connection with the 
administration of the National Archives and Records Administration 
(including the Information Security Oversight Office) and archived 
Federal records and related activities, as provided by law, and for 
expenses necessary for the review and declassification of documents, 
and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $255,191,000: Provided, 
That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use any excess 
funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of the 
National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide adequate 
storage for holdings: Provided further, That, of the funds provided in 
this paragraph, $600,000 shall be for the preservation of the records 
of the Freedmen's Bureau.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Electronic Records Archive</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in connection with the development 
of an electronic records archive, to include all direct project costs 
associated with research, analysis, design, development, and program 
management, $35,914,000, of which $22,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2006.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Repairs and Restoration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives 
facilities, and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $6,458,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $500,000 is for the 
Military Personnel Records Center requirements study.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>National Historical Publications and Records 
                          Commission</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>grants program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for 
historical publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as 
amended, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
Office of Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 
1978, as amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $10,738,000.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

         <DELETED>(including transfer of trust funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
Office of Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 
2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $119,498,000, 
of which $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the cost 
of the enterprise human resources integration project, $2,500,000 shall 
remain available until expended for the cost of leading the Government-
wide initiative to modernize Federal payroll systems and service 
delivery, and $2,500,000 shall remain available through September 30, 
2005 to coordinate and conduct program evaluation and performance 
measurement; and in addition $126,854,000 for administrative expenses, 
to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs, of which $27,640,000 shall remain available until expended 
for the cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems: 
Provided, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect 
the authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 
8348(a)(1)(B), 8909(g), and 9004(f)(1)(A) and (2)(A) of title 5, United 
States Code: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall 
be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of 
the Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive 
Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: 
Provided further, That the President's Commission on White House 
Fellows, established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, 
may, during fiscal year 2004, accept donations of money, property, and 
personal services in connection with the development of a publicity 
brochure to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of 
travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such 
Commission.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Office of Inspector General</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

         <DELETED>(including transfer of trust funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as 
amended, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $1,498,000, and in addition, not to exceed 
$14,427,000 for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and 
provide other oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's 
retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from the 
appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Government Payment for Annuitants, Employees Health 
                           Benefits</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of Government contributions with respect to 
retired employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United 
States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 
Stat. 849), as amended, such sums as may be necessary.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Government Payment for Annuitants, Employee Life 
                          Insurance</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of Government contributions with respect to 
employees retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 
of title 5, United States Code, such sums as may be 
necessary.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Payment to Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
                             Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased 
annuity benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be 
credited to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums 
as may be necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of 
May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended 
(33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Human Capital Performance Fund</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For a human capital performance fund, $2,500,000: 
Provided, That such amount shall not be available for obligation or 
transfer until enactment of legislation that establishes a human 
capital performance fund within the Office of Personnel Management: 
Provided further, That such amounts as determined by the Director of 
the Office of Personnel Management may be transferred to Federal 
agencies to carry out the purposes of this fund as authorized: Provided 
further, That no funds shall be available for obligation or transfer to 
any Federal agency until the Director has notified the relevant 
subcommittees of jurisdiction of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the approval of a performance pay plan for that agency, and the prior 
approval of such subcommittees has been attained.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
Office of Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), as 
amended, the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), 
as amended, Public Law 103-424, and the Uniformed Services Employment 
and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $13,504,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>UNITED STATES TAX COURT</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and 
other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $40,187,000: Provided, 
That travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>WHITE HOUSE COMMISSION ON THE NATIONAL MOMENT OF 
                         REMEMBRANCE</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the White House Commission on 
the National Moment of Remembrance, $250,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>This Act</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 601. During the current fiscal year applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 602. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
2004 pay raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations 
Acts.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 603. Appropriations contained in this Act for the 
Department of Transportation shall be available for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level 
IV.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 604. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 605. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 606. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 607. The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 608. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
implement section 404 of title 23, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 609. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this 
Act shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 
2721.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), no department or 
agency shall withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a 
State is in noncompliance with this provision.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 610. Funds received by the Federal Highway 
Administration, Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad 
Administration from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training may 
be credited respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's 
``Federal-Aid Highways'' account, the Federal Transit Administration's 
``Transit Planning and Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad 
Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State 
rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
20105.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 611. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule 
or regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow 
the issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of 
an amount determined by the Secretary.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 612. None of the funds in title I of this Act may be 
used to make a grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
business days before any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, 
or full funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is 
announced by the department or its modal administrations from: (1) any 
discretionary grant program of the Federal Highway Administration other 
than the emergency relief program; (2) the airport improvement program 
of the Federal Aviation Administration; or (3) any program of the 
Federal Transit Administration other than the formula grants and fixed 
guideway modernization programs: Provided, That no notification shall 
involve funds that are not available for obligation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 613. For the purpose of any applicable law, for 
fiscal year 2004, the city of Norman, Oklahoma, shall be considered to 
be part of the Oklahoma City Transportation Management Area.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 614. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated 
for the Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds appropriated 
to the modal administrations in this Act, except for activities 
underway on the date of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments 
or agreements have completed the normal reprogramming process for 
Congressional notification.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 615. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 616. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees 
and other funds received by the Department of Transportation from 
travel management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of 
building space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to 
appropriations of the Department of Transportation and allocated to 
elements of the Department of Transportation using fair and equitable 
criteria and such funds shall be available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 617. Amounts made available in this or any other Act 
that the Secretary determines represent improper payments by the 
Department of Transportation to a third party contractor under a 
financial assistance award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall 
be available--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by 
        the Department of Transportation in recovering improper 
        payments; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) to pay contractors for services provided in 
        recovering improper payments: Provided, That amounts in excess 
        of that required for paragraphs (1) and (2)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) shall be credited to and merged with 
                the appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available; 
                or</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) if no such appropriation remains 
                available, shall be deposited in the Treasury as 
                miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That prior to 
                the transfer of any such recovery to an appropriations 
                account, the Secretary shall notify the House and 
                Senate Committees on Appropriations of the amount and 
                reasons for such transfer: Provided further, That for 
                purposes of this section, the term ``improper 
                payments,'' has the same meaning as that provided in 
                section 2(d)(2) of Public Law 107-300.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 618. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
transfer the unexpended balances available for the bonding assistance 
program from ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and expenses'' to 
``Minority Business Outreach''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 619. None of the funds made available by this Act 
shall be available for any activity or for paying the salary of any 
Government employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a 
Government employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, 
regulation, or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 
307 of the Tariff Act of 1930.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be available to pay the salary for any person filling a 
position, other than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee 
who has left to enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has 
satisfactorily completed his period of active military or naval 
service, and has within 90 days after his release from such service or 
from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not 
more than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has 
not been restored thereto.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 621. Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
available at the end of fiscal year 2004 from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2004 in this Act, 
shall remain available through September 30, 2005, for each such 
account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That a request shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 622. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used by the Executive Office of the President to request from the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation 
report on any individual, except when--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) such individual has given his or her express 
        written consent for such request not more than 6 months prior 
        to the date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 623. For the purpose of resolving litigation and 
implementing any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area 
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management 
may accept and utilize (without regard to any restriction on 
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds 
made available to the Office pursuant to court approval.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 624. No funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act shall be made available to any person or 
entity that has been convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 
U.S.C. 10a-10c).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 625. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in 
connection with any health plan under the Federal employees health 
benefits program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 626. The provision of section 625 shall not apply 
where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
incest.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 627. For the purpose of assisting State-supported 
intercity rail service, in order to demonstrate whether competition 
will provide higher quality rail passenger service at reasonable 
prices, the Secretary of Transportation, working with affected States, 
shall develop and implement a procedure for fair competitive bidding by 
Amtrak and non-Amtrak operators for State-supported routes: Provided, 
That in the event a State desires to select or selects a non-Amtrak 
operator for the route, the State may make an agreement with Amtrak to 
use facilities and equipment of, or have services provided by, Amtrak 
under terms agreed to by the State and Amtrak to enable the non-Amtrak 
operator to provide the State-supported service: Provided further, That 
if the parties cannot agree on terms, the Secretary shall, as a 
condition of receipt of Federal grant funds, order that the facilities 
and equipment be made available and the services be provided by Amtrak 
under reasonable terms and compensation: Provided further, That when 
prescribing reasonable compensation to Amtrak, the Secretary shall 
consider quality of service as a major factor when determining whether, 
and the extent to which, the amount of compensation shall be greater 
than the incremental costs of using the facilities and providing the 
services: Provided further, That the Secretary may reprogram up to 
$5,000,000 from the Amtrak operating grant funds for costs associated 
with the implementation of the fair bid procedure and demonstration of 
competition under this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 628. None of the funds provided in this Act, provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2004, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees and available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) creates a new program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) eliminates a program, project, or 
        activity;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) increases funds for any program, project, or 
        activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by the 
        Congress;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific 
        activity by either the House or Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations for a different purpose;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) augments existing programs, projects, or 
        activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
        less; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or 
        activities by 10 percent,</DELETED>
<DELETED>unless the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of such reprogramming.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 629. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to require a State or local government to post a traffic 
control device or variable message sign, or any other type of traffic 
warning sign, in a language other than English, except with respect to 
the names of cities, streets, places, events, or signs related to an 
international border.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 630. Exemption From Limitations on Procurement of 
Foreign Information Technology That Is a Commercial Item.--(a) 
Exemption.--In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in the Buy American Act (41 
U.S.C. 10a et seq.), shall not apply to the acquisition by the Federal 
Government of information technology (as defined in section 11101 of 
title 40, United States Code, that is a commercial item (as defined in 
section 4(12) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
U.S.C. 403(12)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Definition.--Section 11101(6) of title 40, United 
States Code, is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after 
        ``storage,'' the following: ``analysis, evaluation,''; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``ancillary 
        equipment,'' and inserting ``ancillary equipment (including 
        imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices 
        necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment 
        designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a 
        computer,''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 631. It is the sense of the House of Representatives 
that empowerment zones within cities should have the necessary 
flexibility to expand to include relevant communities so that 
empowerment zone benefits are equitably distributed.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 632. It is the sense of the House of Representatives 
that all census tracts contained in an empowerment zone, either fully 
or partially, should be equitably accorded the same benefits.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 633. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to finalize, implement, administer, or enforce--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the proposed rule relating to the 
        determination that real estate brokerage is an activity that is 
        financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity 
        published in the Federal Register on January 3, 2001 (66 Fed. 
        Reg. 307 et seq.); or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the revision proposed in such rule to section 
        1501.2 of title 12 of the Code of Federal 
        Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 634. It is the sense of Congress that, after proper 
documentation, justification, and review, the Department of 
Transportation should consider programs to reimburse general aviation 
ground support services at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, 
and airports located within fifteen miles of Ronald Reagan Washington 
National Airport, for their financial losses due to Government actions 
after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 635. It is the sense of the House of Representatives 
that public private partnerships (PPPs) could help eliminate some of 
the cost drivers behind complex, capital-intensive highway and transit 
projects. The House of Representatives encourages the Secretary of 
Transportation to apply available funds to select projects that are in 
the development phase, eligible under title 23 and title 49, United 
States Code, except 23 U.S.C. 133(b)(8), and that employ a PPP 
strategy.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Departments, Agencies, and Corporations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 701. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may 
be used to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 702. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act 
for fiscal year 2004 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless 
such department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will 
continue to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to 
ensure that all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, 
possession, or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the 
Controlled Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 703. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the 
maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance 
with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 704. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 705. Unless otherwise specified during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States (including any agency 
the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person in the service of the United States on the date of the enactment 
of this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a 
declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States prior 
to such date and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from 
Cuba, Poland, South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, 
or the Baltic countries lawfully admitted to the United States for 
permanent residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian 
refugee paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 706. Appropriations available to any department or 
agency during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 707. In addition to funds provided in this or any 
other Act, all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds 
resulting from the sale of materials, including Federal records 
disposed of pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling 
or waste prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until 
expended for the following purposes:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, 
        and recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 
        13101 (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted 
        prior to the effective date of the Executive order.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Other Federal agency environmental management 
        programs, including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law 
        or as deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal 
        agency.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 708. Funds made available by this or any other Act 
for administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the 
corporations and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available, in addition to objects for which such 
funds are otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; 
services in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified 
under this head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 709. No part of any appropriation for the current 
fiscal year contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any 
person for the filling of any position for which he or she has been 
nominated after the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of 
said person.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 710. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or 
instrumentality.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 711. Funds made available by this or any other Act to 
the Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for 
employment of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by 
the Postal Service and under the charge and control of the Postal 
Service, and such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the 
powers of special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of 
June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to 
property owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster 
General may take the same actions as the Administrator of General 
Services may take under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act 
of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), 
attaching thereto penal consequences under the authority and within the 
limits provided in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 
Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318c).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 712. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 713. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
and except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2004, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) during the period from the date of expiration 
        of the limitation imposed by the comparable section for the 
        previous fiscal years until the normal effective date of the 
        applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in 
        fiscal year 2004, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable 
        for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
        schedule in accordance with such section; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) during the period consisting of the remainder 
        of fiscal year 2004, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of 
        a wage survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) 
        by more than the sum of--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) the percentage adjustment taking 
                effect in fiscal year 2004 under section 5303 of title 
                5, United States Code, in the rates of pay under the 
                General Schedule; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) the difference between the overall 
                average percentage of the locality-based comparability 
                payments taking effect in fiscal year 2004 under 
                section 5304 of such title (whether by adjustment or 
                otherwise), and the overall average percentage of such 
                payments which was effective in the previous fiscal 
                year under such section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
prevailing rate employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of 
section 5342(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no employee 
covered by section 5348 of such title, may be paid during the periods 
for which subsection (a) is in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates 
that would be payable under subsection (a) were subsection (a) 
applicable to such employee.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to 
an employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a 
schedule not in existence on September 30, 2003, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel 
Management.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of 
premium pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed 
from the rates in effect on September 30, 2003, except to the extent 
determined by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with 
the purpose of this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for 
service performed after September 30, 2003.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit 
or require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a 
rate in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not 
in effect.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for 
exceptions to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office 
determines that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment 
or retention of qualified employees.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 714. During the period in which the head of any 
department or agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the 
Government appointed by the President of the United States, holds 
office, no funds may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to 
furnish or redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, 
officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. 
For the purposes of this section, the term ``office'' shall include the 
entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well as any 
other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which is 
directly controlled by the individual.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 715. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United 
States Code, or section 710 of this Act, funds made available for the 
current fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
interagency funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 716. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or 
any other Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any 
employee appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-
determining character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to 
section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to 
the Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal 
department, agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C 
appointee that the Schedule C position was not created solely or 
primarily in order to detail the employee to the White House.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to 
Federal employees or members of the armed services detailed to or 
from--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the National Security Agency;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) the offices within the Department of Defense 
        for the collection of specialized national foreign intelligence 
        through reconnaissance programs;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, 
        Air Force, and Marine Corps, the Department of Homeland 
        Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
        Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice, the 
        Department of Transportation, the Department of the Treasury, 
        and the Department of Energy performing intelligence functions; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (7) the Director of Central 
        Intelligence.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 717. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act 
for the current fiscal year shall obligate or expend any such funds, 
unless such department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and 
will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to 
ensure that all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and 
sexual harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation 
of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age 
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 718. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of 
any officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or 
        threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee 
        of the Federal Government from having any direct oral or 
        written communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, 
        demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or 
        performance of efficiency rating, denies promotion to, 
        relocates, reassigns, transfers, disciplines, or discriminates 
        in regard to any employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or 
        any term or condition of employment of, any other officer or 
        employee of the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to 
        commit any of the foregoing actions with respect to such other 
        officer or employee, by reason of any communication or contact 
        of such other officer or employee with any Member, committee, 
        or subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph 
        (1).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 719. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training 
that--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, 
        skills, and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
        official duties;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels 
        of emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) does not require prior employee notification 
        of the content and methods to be used in the training and 
        written end of course evaluation;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) contains any methods or content associated 
        with religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; 
        or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
        participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the 
        workplace.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly 
upon the performance of official duties.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 720. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 
312 and 4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, 
or agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and do 
not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing 
disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) 
of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, 
abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities 
Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures 
that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes 
which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national 
security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, 
United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act 
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, 
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order and 
listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are 
controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, 
a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United 
States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 721. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any 
other Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other 
than for normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress 
itself.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when the employee has 
authorized such disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by 
a court of competent jurisdiction.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available in this Act or 
any other Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as 
mailing or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of 
the Federal Government without the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 724. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
or any other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes 
within the United States not heretofore authorized by the 
Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 725. Unless authorized in accordance with law or 
regulations to use such time for other purposes, an employee of an 
agency shall use official time in an honest effort to perform official 
duties. An employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential 
appointee exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States 
Code, has an obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable 
proportion of such employee's time in the performance of official 
duties: Provided, That in this section the term ``agency''--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) means an Executive agency as defined under 
        section 105 of title 5, United States Code;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) includes a military department as defined 
        under section 102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the 
        Postal Rate Commission; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) shall not include the General Accounting 
        Office.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 726. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 710 
of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this 
or any other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the 
Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP), shall be 
available to finance an appropriate share of JFMIP administrative 
costs, as determined by the JFMIP, but not to exceed a total of 
$800,000 including the salary of the Executive Director and staff 
support.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 727. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 710 
of this Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse the ``Governmentwide Policy'' 
account, General Services Administration, with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, including rebates 
from charge card and other contracts. These funds shall be administered 
by the Administrator of General Services to support Government-wide 
financial, information technology, procurement, and other management 
innovations, initiatives, and activities, as approved by the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the 
appropriate interagency groups designated by the Director (including 
the Chief Financial Officers Council and the Joint Financial Management 
Improvement Program for financial management initiatives, the Chief 
Information Officers Council for information technology initiatives, 
and the Procurement Executives Council for procurement initiatives). 
The total funds transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $17,000,000. 
Such transfers or reimbursements may only be made 15 days following 
notification of the Committees on Appropriations by the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 728. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or 
on Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise 
authorized to be present at the location.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 729. Nothwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, 
United States Code, or section 710 of this Act, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available 
for the interagency funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, 
and similar efforts to carry out the purposes of the National Science 
and Technology Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which 
benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities: Provided, 
That the Office of Management and Budget shall provide a report 
describing the budget of and resources connected with the National 
Science and Technology Council to the Committees on Appropriations, the 
House Committee on Science; and the Senate Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 730. Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall indicate the agency 
providing the funds, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number, 
as applicable,  and the amount provided. This provision shall apply to 
direct payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State 
receiving Federal funds.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 731. Subsection (f) of section 403 of Public Law 103-
356 (31 U.S.C. 501 note) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2001'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2004''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 732. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Personal Information on Use of Internet.--None of the funds made 
available in this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregate 
        list, derived from any means, that includes the collection of 
        any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any Federal Government 
        Internet site of the agency; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another Government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregate list, derived from any means, that 
        includes the collection of any personally identifiable 
        information relating to an individual's access to or use of any 
        nongovernmental Internet site.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection 
(a) shall not apply to--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) any record of aggregate data that does not 
        identify particular persons;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) any voluntary submission of personally 
        identifiable information;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) any action taken for law enforcement, 
        regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in accordance with 
        applicable law; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that 
        is a system security action taken by the operator of an 
        Internet site and is necessarily incident to the rendition of 
        the Internet site services or to the protection of the rights 
        or property of the provider of the Internet site.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this 
section:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions 
        to implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in 
        law.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of 
        the agency's supervised institutions, including assessing 
        safety and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 733. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a 
provision providing prescription drug coverage, except where the 
contract also includes a provision for contraceptive 
coverage.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract 
with--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) any of the following religious 
        plans:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) OSF Health Plans, Inc.; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier 
        for the plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters 
into or renews a contract under this section may not subject any 
individual to discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses 
to prescribe or otherwise provide for contraceptives because such 
activities would be contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or 
moral convictions.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require 
coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 734. The Congress of the United States recognizes the 
United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) as the official anti-doping 
agency for Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic sport in the United 
States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 735. Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of each applicable 
department or agency shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations a 
report detailing what policies and procedures are in place for each 
department or agency to give first priority to the location of new 
offices and other facilities in rural areas, as directed by the Rural 
Development Act of 1972.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 736. Each executive department and agency shall 
evaluate the creditworthiness of an individual before issuing the 
individual a Government travel charge card. The department or agency 
may not issue a Government travel charge card to an individual that 
either lacks a credit history or is found to have an unsatisfactory 
credit history as a result of this evaluation: Provided, That this 
restriction shall not preclude issuance of a restricted-use charge, 
debit, or stored value card made in accordance with agency procedures 
to: (1) an individual with an unsatisfactory credit history where such 
card is used to pay travel expenses and the agency determines there is 
no suitable alternative payment mechanism available before issuing the 
card; or (2) an individual who lacks a credit history. Each executive 
department and agency shall establish guidelines and procedures for 
disciplinary actions to be taken against agency personnel for improper, 
fraudulent, or abusive use of Government charge cards, which shall 
include appropriate disciplinary actions for use of charge cards for 
purposes, and at establishments, that are inconsistent with the 
official business of the department or agency or with applicable 
standards of conduct.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 737. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United 
States Code, or section 710 of this Act, funds made available for the 
current fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
interagency funding of the National Oceanographic Partnership Program 
Office, authorized by 10 U.S.C. 7902, and the Coastal America program, 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities: 
Provided, That the Department of Commerce shall provide a report 
describing the budget of and resources connected with the National 
Oceanographic Partnership Program Office and the Coastal America 
program to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on Science, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation 90 days after the enactment of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 738. Section 640(c) of the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-58; 2 U.S.C. 437g 
note 1), as amended by section 642 of the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-67), is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2003'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2005''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 739. Section 304(a) of the Federal Election Campaign 
Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(a)) is amended as follows:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in clauses (a)(2)(A)(i) and (a)(4)(A)(ii) by 
        striking the parenthetical ``(or posted by registered or 
        certified mail no later than the 15th day before)'' and 
        inserting in its place, ``(or posted by any of the following: 
        registered mail, certified mail, priority mail having a 
        delivery confirmation, or express mail having a delivery 
        confirmation, or delivered to an overnight delivery service 
        with an on-line tracking system, if posted or delivered no 
        later than the 15th day before)''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by striking paragraph (a)(5) and inserting the 
        following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(5) If a designation, report, or statement filed 
        pursuant to this Act (other than under paragraph (2)(A)(i) or 
        (4)(A)(ii) or subsection (g)(1)) is sent by registered mail, 
        certified mail, priority mail having a delivery confirmation, 
        or express mail having a delivery confirmation, the United 
        States postmark shall be considered the date of filing the 
        designation, report or statement. If a designation, report or 
        statement filed pursuant to this Act (other than under 
        paragraph (2)(A)(i) or (4)(A)(ii), or subsection (g)(1)) is 
        sent by an overnight delivery service with an on-line tracking 
        system, the date on the proof of delivery to the delivery 
        service shall be considered the date of filing of the 
        designation, report, or statement.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 740. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for 
employees under the statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal 
year 2004 under sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, 
shall be an increase of 4.1 percent, and this adjustment shall apply to 
civilian employees in the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Homeland Security and such adjustments shall be effective as of the 
first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after 
January 1, 2004.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Notwithstanding section 713 of this Act, the 
adjustment in rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that 
take place in fiscal year 2004 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be no less than the percentage in paragraph 
(a) as employees in the same location whose rates of basic pay are 
adjusted pursuant to the statutory pay systems under section 5303 and 
5304 of title 5, United States Code. Prevailing rate employees at 
locations where there are no employees whose pay is increased pursuant 
to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5 and prevailing rate employees 
described in section 5343(a)(5) of title 5 shall be considered to be 
located in the pay locality designated as ``Rest of US'' pursuant to 
section 5304 of title 5 for purposes of this paragraph.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid 
from appropriations, which are made to each applicable department or 
agency for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2004.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 741. Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
head of each agency shall submit to Congress a report on the 
competitive sourcing activities performed during the previous fiscal 
year by Federal Government sources that are on the list required under 
the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-
270; 31 U.S.C. 501 note). The report shall include--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the number of full time equivalent Federal 
        employees studied for competitive sourcing;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the total agency cost required to carry out 
        its competitive sourcing program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) the costs attributable to paying outside 
        consultants and contractors to carry out the agency's 
        competitive sourcing program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) the costs attributable to paying agency 
        personnel to carry out its competitive sourcing program; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) an estimate of the savings attributed as a 
        result of the agency competitive sourcing program.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 742. It is the sense of the Congress that none of the 
funds made available in this Act should be used to disestablish any pay 
locality (as defined by section 5302 of title 5, United States 
Code).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 743. For an additional amount for new fixed guideway 
systems under the heading ``Federal Transit Administration--Capital 
Investment Grants'' for the Silicon Valley, CA, Rapid Transit Corridor, 
and the amount otherwise provided under such heading for the San 
Francisco, CA, Muni Third Street Light Rail Project is hereby reduced 
by, $1,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 744. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
for necessary expenses to carry out the essential air service program 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 41742(a), there is hereby appropriated 
$63,000,000, to be derived from the airport and airway trust fund and 
to remain available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 745. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to administer or enforce part 515 of title 31, Code of 
Federal Regulations (the Cuban Assets Control Regulations) with respect 
to any travel or travel-related transaction.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The limitation established in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to the administration of general or specific licenses for travel 
or travel-related transactions, shall not apply to section 515.204, 
515.206, 515.332, 515.536, 515.544, 515.547, 515.560(c)(3), 515.569, 
515.571, or 515.803 of such part 515, and shall not apply to 
transactions in relation to any business travel covered by section 
515.560(g) of such part 515.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 746. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to enforce any restriction on remittances to nationals of Cuba 
or Cuban households, including remittances for emigration expenses, 
covered by section 515.570 or 515.560(c) of title 31, Code of Federal 
Regulations, other than the restriction that remittances not be made 
from a blocked source and the restriction that no member of the payee's 
household be a senior-level Government official or senior-level 
communist party official.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 747. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used to assist in overturning the judicial ruling contained in the 
Memorandum and Order of the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of Illinois entered on July 31, 2003, in the action 
entitled Kathi Cooper, Beth Harrington, and Matthew Hillesheim, 
Individually and on Behalf of All Those Similarly Situated vs. IBM 
Personal Pension Plan and IBM Corporation (Civil No. 99-829-
GPM).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 748. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
be used to implement the revision to Office of Management and Budget 
Circular A-76 made on May 29, 2003.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 749. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to implement, administer, or enforce the amendments made to 
section 515.565(b)(2) of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
(relating to specific licenses for ``people-to-people'' educational 
exchanges), as published in the Federal Register on March 24, 
2003.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
the implementation, administration, or enforcement of 515.560(c)(3) of 
title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation, Treasury, 
and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of 
Transportation and Treasury, the Executive Office of the President, and 
certain independent agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2004, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $91,276,000, 
of which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $706,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $15,403,000 
shall be available for the Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed 
$12,312,000 shall be available for the Office of the Under Secretary of 
Transportation for Policy; not to exceed $8,536,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; not 
to exceed $2,477,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Governmental Affairs; not to exceed $28,882,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration; 
not to exceed $1,915,000 shall be available for the Office of Public 
Affairs; not to exceed $1,458,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Executive Secretariat; not to exceed $700,000 shall be available 
for the Board of Contract Appeals; not to exceed $1,268,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
Utilization; not to exceed $1,792,000 for the Office of Intelligence 
and Security; and not to exceed $13,327,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Transportation is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any 
office of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office 
of the Secretary: Provided further, That no appropriation for any 
office shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all 
such transfers: Provided further, That any change in funding greater 
than 5 percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$60,000 shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
excluding fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited 
to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $8,569,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $15,836,000.

                          working capital fund

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $116,715,000, shall be paid from 
appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation: 
Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation: Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities: Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any 
program, budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act 
unless notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved 
by such Committees.

               minority business resource center program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $18,367,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the guaranteed loan program, $400,000.

                       minority business outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center 
outreach activities, $3,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2005: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may 
be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $52,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 104-264, 
$7,535,648,000, of which $6,000,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $6,047,300,000 
shall be available for air traffic services program activities; not to 
exceed $873,374,000 shall be available for aviation regulation and 
certification program activities; not to exceed $218,481,000 shall be 
available for research and acquisition program activities; not to 
exceed $12,601,000 shall be available for commercial space 
transportation program activities; not to exceed $49,783,000 shall be 
available for financial services program activities; not to exceed 
$77,029,000 shall be available for human resources program activities; 
not to exceed $84,749,000 shall be available for regional coordination 
program activities; not to exceed $142,650,000 shall be available for 
staff offices; and not to exceed $29,681,000 shall be available for 
information services: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the Federal Aviation Administration to finalize 
or implement any regulation that would promulgate new aviation user 
fees not specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment 
of this Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation 
facilities, and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for 
tests related thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration 
forms: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $6,500,000 shall be for the contract tower cost-
sharing program: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into 
a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to 
assist in the development of aviation safety standards: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new 
applicants for the second career training program: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for paying 
premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation 
Administration employee unless such employee actually performed work 
during the time corresponding to such premium pay: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to 
operate a manned auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous 
United States: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for 
aeronautical charting and cartography are available for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $50,000 may be transferred to the Aircraft Loan Purchase 
Guarantee Program.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, hire of air navigation and experimental 
facilities and equipment and other capital facilities and equipment in 
direct support of the National Airspace System, as authorized under 
part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including 
initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering 
and service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,916,000,000, of which $2,480,520,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2006, and of which $435,480,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2004: Provided, That of the total amount made 
available under this heading, $100,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
heading ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports'' and shall not be subject to the 
obligation limitation stated therein and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities: 
Provided further, That upon initial submission to the Congress of the 
fiscal year 2005 President's budget, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall transmit to the Congress a comprehensive capital investment plan 
for the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2005 through 2009, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $118,939,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred for research, engineering, and 
development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,400,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,400,000,000 in fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other 
airport improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not more than $66,638,000 of funds limited under this 
heading shall be obligated for administration and not less than 
$20,000,000 shall be for the Small Community Air Service Development 
Pilot Program.

                   aviation insurance revolving fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

          general provisions--federal aviation administration

    Sec. 101. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) instrument landing systems (along with associated approach 
lighting equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to 
FAA design and performance specifications, the purchase of which was 
assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, airport development aid 
program or airport improvement program grant: Provided, That, the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such equipment, which 
shall thereafter be operated and maintained by FAA in accordance with 
agency criteria.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 350 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2004.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of 
funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the agency 
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' rates for 
these items or to grant assurances that require airport sponsors to 
provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic control.
    Sec. 104. For an airport project that the Administrator of the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) determines will add critical 
airport capacity to the national air transportation system, the 
Administrator is authorized to accept funds from an airport sponsor, 
including entitlement funds provided under the ``Grants-in-Aid for 
Airports'' program, for the FAA to hire additional staff or obtain the 
services of consultants: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized 
to accept and utilize such funds only for the purpose of facilitating 
the timely processing, review, and completion of environmental 
activities associated with such project.
    Sec. 105. The Federal Aviation Administration shall give priority 
consideration to Paulding County, Georgia Airport Improvements for the 
Airport Improvement Program.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended to establish or 
implement a pilot program under which not more than 10 designated 
essential air service communities located in proximity to hub airports 
are required to assume 10 percent of their essential air subsidy costs 
for a 4-year period, commonly referred to as the EAS local 
participation program.
    Sec. 107. The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may, for purposes of chapter 471 of title 49, United States Code, give 
priority consideration to a letter of intent application for funding 
submitted by the City of Gary, Indiana, or the State of Indiana, for 
the extension of the main runway at the Gary/Chicago Airport. The 
letter of intent application shall be considered upon completion of the 
environmental impact statement and benefit cost analysis in accordance 
with Federal Aviation Administration requirements. The Administrator 
shall consider the letter of intent application not later than 90 days 
after receiving it from the applicant.
    Sec. 108. None of the funds in this Act may be used to adopt rules 
or regulations concerning travel agent service fees unless the 
Department of Transportation publishes in the Federal Register 
revisions to the proposed rule and provides a period for additional 
public comment on such proposed rule for a period not less than 60 
days.
    Sec. 109. It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of 
Transportation must, in connection with the Philadelphia International 
Airport Capacity Enhancement Program, consider the impact of aircraft 
noise on northern Delaware--
            (1) within the scope of the environmental impact statement 
        prepared in connection with the Program; and
            (2) as part of any study of aircraft noise required under 
        the National Environmental Protection Act of 1969 and conducted 
        pursuant to part 150 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, 
        or any successor regulations.
    Sec. 110. Of the total amount appropriated under this title for the 
Federal Aviation Administration under the heading ``facilities and 
equipment'', $2,000,000 shall be available for air traffic control 
facilities, John C. Stennis International Airport, Hancock County, 
Mississippi.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration, not to exceed $337,834,000, shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: 
Provided, That of the funds available under section 104(a)(1)(A) of 
title 23, United States Code: $20,000,000 shall be available to provide 
grants to States for the development or enhancement of notification or 
communications systems along highways for alerts and other information 
for the recovery of abducted children under section 303 of Public Law 
108-21; $175,000,000 shall be available to enable the Secretary of 
Transportation to make grants for surface transportation projects, and 
shall remain available until expended; $7,000,000 shall be available 
for environmental streamlining activities, which may include making 
grants to, or entering into contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other transactions, with a Federal agency, State agency, local agency, 
authority, association, nonprofit or for-profit corporation, or 
institution of higher education.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for which are 
in excess of $33,843,000,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway 
safety construction programs for fiscal year 2004: Provided, That 
within the $33,843,000,000 obligation limitation on Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs, not more than 
$462,500,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution of 
programs for transportation research (sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 507, 
and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 of 
title 49, Unites States Code, as amended; and sections 5112 and 5204-
5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2003: Provided further, 
That this limitation on transportation research programs shall not 
apply to any authority previously made available for obligation: 
Provided further, That within the $232,000,000 obligation limitation on 
Intelligent Transportation Systems, the following sums shall be made 
available for Intelligent Transportation System projects that are 
designed to achieve the goals and purposes set forth in section 5203 of 
the Intelligent Transportation Systems Act of 1998 (subtitle C of title 
V of Public Law 105-178; 112 Stat. 453; 23 U.S.C. 502 note) in the 
following specified areas:
            511 Traveler Information Program, North Carolina, $400,000;
            Advanced Ticket Collection and Passenger Information 
        Systems, New Jersey, $1,500,000;
            Advanced Traffic Analysis Center, North Dakota, $500,000;
            Advanced Transportation Management Systems (AMTS), 
        Montgomery County, Maryland, $1,000,000;
            ATR Transportation Technology/CVISN, New Mexico, 
        $1,000,000;
            Auburn, Auburn Way South ITS, Washington, $1,600,000;
            Cargo Watch Logistics Information System, New York, 
        $4,000,000;
            CCTA Intelligent Transportation Systems, Vermont, 
        $1,000,000;
            Central Florida Regional Transportation Authority: North 
        Orange/South Seminole ITS Enhanced Circulator, $2,500,000;
            City of Boston Intelligent Transportation Systems, 
        Massachusetts, $1,750,000;
            City of Huntsville, Alabama ITS, $5,000,000;
            City of Shreveport Intelligent Transportation System 
        Deployment, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            Clark County Transit, VAST ITS, Washington, $1,600,000;
            Dynamic Changeable Message Signs--Urban Interstate System, 
        Iowa, $1,000,000;
            Fiber Optic Signal Interconnect System, Arizona, 
        $4,000,000;
            Germantown Parkway ITS Project, Tennessee, $3,000,000;
            GMU ITS, Virginia, $1,000,000
            George Washington University, Virginia Campus, $1,000,000
            Great Lakes ITS, Michigan, $2,000,000;
            Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce ITS System, 
        Pennsylvania, $2,000,000;
            Hillsborough Area Regional Transit Bus Tracking, 
        Communication and Security, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Hoosier SAFE-T, Indiana, $3,500,000;
            I-70 Incident Management Plan, Colorado, $3,000,000;
            Intelligent Transportation Systems--Phases II and III, 
        Ohio, $1,250,000;
            Intelligent Transportation Systems [ITS] Statewide and 
        Commercial Vehicle Information Systems Network [CVISN], 
        Maryland, $1,000,000;
            Intelligent Transportation Systems, Illinois, $4,000,000;
            Iowa Transit Communications, $1,500,000;
            ITS Expansion in Davis and Utah Counties, Utah, $1,250,000;
            ITS, Cache Valley, Utah, $1,000,000;
            Jacksonville Transportation Authority: Intelligent 
        Transportation Systems Regional Planning, Florida, $1,000,000;
            King County, Countywide Signaling Program, Washington, 
        $1,500,000;
            Lewis & Clark 511 Coalition, Montana, $1,000,000;
            Lincoln, Nebraska StarTran Automatic Vehicle Location 
        System, $1,000,000;
            Maine Statewide ITS, $1,000,000;
            MARTA Automated Fare Collection/Smart Card System, Georgia, 
        $1,500,000;
            Mid-America Surface Transportation Weather Research 
        Institute, North Dakota, $1,000,000;
            Missouri Statewide Rural ITS, $5,000,000;
            Nebraska Statewide Intelligent Transportation System 
        Deployment, $2,000,000;
            Oklahoma Statewide ITS, $5,000,000;
            Port of Anchorage Intermodal Facility, Alaska, $1,500,000;
            Program of Projects, Washington, $5,400,000;
            RIPTA ITS Program Phase II, Rhode Island, $1,500,000;
            Real Time Transit Passenger Information System for the 
        Prince George's County Department of Public Works, Maryland, 
        $1,000,000;
            Sacramento Area Council of Governments--ITS Projects, 
        California, $4,000,000;
            SCDOT InRoads, South Carolina, $3,000,000;
            Seattle City Center ITS, Washington, $2,500,000;
            Springfield, Missouri Regional ITS, $2,000,000;
            State of Vermont Interstate Variable Message Signs and 
        Weather Information Stations, $1,000,000;
            Statewide AVL Initiative, Nebraska, $750,000;
            TalTran: ITS Smart Bus Implementation, Florida, $1,500,000;
            Texas Medical Center Early Warning Transportation System, 
        $2,000,000;
            Texas Statewide ITS Deployment and Integration, $1,000,000;
            Town of Cary: Computerized Traffic Signal System Project, 
        North Carolina, $1,600,000;
            Transportation Research Center [TRC] for Freight, Trade, 
        Security, and Economic Strength, Georgia, $1,000,000;
            Tri-County Automated System Project, University of Southern 
        Mississippi, $1,000,000;
            Tukwila, Signalization Interconnect and Intelligent 
        Transportation, Washington, $1,400,000;
            Twin Cities, Minnesota Redundant Communications Pilot, 
        $2,000,000;
            UAB Center for Injury Sciences, Birmingham, Alabama, 
        $2,000,000;
            University of Alaska Transportation Research Center, 
        $2,000,000;
            University of Kentucky Transportation Center, $1,500,000;
            University of Oklahoma Intelligent Bridge System Research, 
        $3,000,000;
            Wisconsin State Patrol Mobile Data Computer Network Phase 
        II, $3,000,000;
            Wyoming Statewide ITS Initiative, $5,000,000.

                          federal-aid highways

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for carrying out the 
provisions of title 23, United States Code, that are attributable to 
Federal-aid highways, including the National Scenic and Recreational 
Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not otherwise provided, 
including reimbursement for sums expended pursuant to the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 308, $34,000,000,000 or so much thereof as may be available 
in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances of funds apportioned to each state 
under the program authorized under sections 1101(a)(1), 1101(a)(2), 
1101(a)(3), 1101(a)(4), and 1101(a)(5) of Public Law 105-178, as 
amended, $156,000,000 are rescinded.

                 appalachian development highway system

    For necessary expenses for the Appalachian Development Highway 
System as authorized under section 1069(y) of Public Law 102-240, as 
amended, $150,000,000, to remain available until expended.

           general provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 110. (a) For fiscal year 2004, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a)(1)(A) of title 23, United States 
        Code, for the highway use tax evasion program, and for the 
        Bureau of Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for sections set forth in 
                paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b) and sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for section 105 of title 
                23, United States Code, equal to the amount referred to 
                in subsection (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the 
                aggregate of the amounts not distributed under 
                paragraph (1) of this subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for section 201 of the Appalachian 
        Regional Development Act of 1965 and $2,000,000,000 for such 
        fiscal year under section 105 of title 23, United States Code 
        (relating to minimum guarantee) so that the amount of 
        obligation authority available for each of such sections is 
        equal to the amount determined by multiplying the ratio 
        determined under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be 
        appropriated for such section (except in the case of section 
        105, $2,000,000,000) for such fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined 
        under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated 
        for such program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for 
        the minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations: (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 
147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under 
section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 
131(b) and 131(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; 
(5) under sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and 
Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under sections 1103 
through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991; (7) under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century; (8) under section 105 
of title 23, United States Code (but, only in an amount equal to 
$639,000,000 for such fiscal year); and for Federal-aid highway 
programs for which obligation authority was made available under the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century or subsequent public 
laws for multiple years or to remain available until used, but only to 
the extent that such obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 
1015 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
(105 Stat. 1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapter 5 of title 
23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made available 
for such programs under such limitation shall remain available for a 
period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds: 
(1) that are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
Federal-aid highways programs (other than the program under section 160 
of title 23, United States Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and highway-related 
programs under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code; and (2) that 
the Secretary determines will not be allocated to the States, and will 
not be available for obligation, in such fiscal year due to the 
imposition of any obligation limitation for such fiscal year. Such 
distribution to the States shall be made in the same ratio as the 
distribution of obligation authority under subsection (a)(6). The funds 
so distributed shall be available for any purposes described in section 
133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    (f) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) of this section for a section set forth in 
subsection (a)(4) shall remain available until used and shall be in 
addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs for future 
fiscal years.
    (g) Of the obligation limitation transferred to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration for expenses necessary to 
discharge the functions of the Secretary with respect to traffic and 
highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, and 
part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, $94,543,500 
shall remain available until September 30, 2006.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever an 
allocation is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
expenditure on the Federal lands highway program, and whenever an 
apportionment is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
expenditure on the surface transportation program, the congestion 
mitigation and air quality improvement program, the National Highway 
System, the Interstate maintenance program, the bridge program, the 
Appalachian development highway system, and the minimum guarantee 
program, the Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) deduct a sum in such amount not to exceed 2.55 percent 
        of all sums so made available, as the Secretary determines 
        necessary, to administer the provisions of law to be financed 
        from appropriations for motor carrier safety programs and motor 
        carrier safety research: Provided, That any deduction by the 
        Secretary of Transportation in accordance with this subsection 
        shall be deemed to be a deduction under section 104(a)(1)(B) of 
        title 23, United States Code, and the sum so deducted shall 
        remain available until expended; and
            (2) deduct a sum in such amount not to exceed 1.05 percent 
        of all sums so made available, as the Secretary determines 
        necessary to administer the provisions of law to be financed 
        from appropriations for the programs authorized under chapters 
        1 and 2 of title 23, United States Code, and to make transfers 
        in accordance with section 104(a)(1)(A)(ii) of title 23, United 
        States Code: Provided, That any deduction by the Secretary of 
        Transportation in accordance with this subsection shall be 
        deemed to be a deduction under section 104(a)(1)(A) of title 
        23, United States Code, and the sum so deducted shall remain 
        available until expended.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited 
to the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall be subject to 
the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 113. For fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, historic covered bridges eligible for Federal assistance under 
section 1224 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, may be funded from amounts set aside for the discretionary 
bridge program.
    Sec. 114. (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall enter into 
an agreement with the State of Nevada, the State of Arizona, or both, 
to provide a method of funding for construction of a Hoover Dam Bypass 
Bridge from funds allocated for the Federal Lands Highway Program under 
section 202(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    (b) Methods of Funding.--
            (1) The agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall 
        provide for funding in a manner consistent with the advance 
        construction and debt instrument financing procedures for 
        Federal-aid highways set forth in section 115 and 122 of title 
        23, except that the funding source may include funds made 
        available under the Federal Lands Highway Program.
            (2) Eligibility for funding under this subsection shall not 
        be construed as a commitment, guarantee, or obligation on the 
        part of the United States to provide for payment of principal 
        or interest of an eligible debt financing instrument as so 
        defined in section 122, nor create a right of a third party 
        against the United States for payment under an eligible debt 
        financing instrument. The agreement entered into pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall make specific reference to this provision 
        of law.
            (3) The provisions of this section do not limit the use of 
        other available funds for which the project referenced in 
        subsection (a) is eligible.
    Sec. 115. Section 1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991, item number 8, is amended by striking ``To 
relocate'' and all that follows through ``Street'' and inserting the 
following, ``For road improvements and non-motorized enhancements in 
the Detroit East Riverfront, Detroit, Michigan''.
    Sec. 116. The funds provided under the heading ``Transportation and 
Community and System Preservation Program'' in Conference Report 106-
940 for the Lodge Freeway pedestrian overpass, Detroit, Michigan, shall 
be transferred to, and made available for, enhancements in the East 
Riverfront, Detroit, Michigan.
    Sec. 117. The funds provided under the heading ``Transportation and 
Community and System Preservation Program'' in Conference Report 107-
308 for the Eastern Market pedestrian overpass park, shall be 
transferred to, and made available for, enhancements in the East 
Riverfront, Detroit, Michigan.
    Sec. 118. Kansas Recreation Areas. Any unexpended balances of the 
amounts made available by the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 
2003 (Public Law 108-7) from the Federal-aid highway account for 
improvements to Council Grove Lake, Kansas, shall be available to make 
improvements to Richey Cove, Santa Fe Recreation Area, Canning Creek 
Recreation Area, and other areas in the State of Kansas.
    Sec. 119. Of the amounts made available under this title under the 
heading ``federal-aid highways'' for Texas Statewide ITS Deployment and 
Integration--
            (1) $500,000 shall be made available for the deployment and 
        implementation of an Intelligent Transportation System project 
        at Port of Galveston, Texas; and
            (2) $500,000 shall be made available for the deployment and 
        implementation of an Intelligent Transportation System project 
        at City of Lubbock, Texas.
    Sec. 120. Extension of Research Projects Under TEA-21. For fiscal 
year 2004 only, the Federal Highway Administration is instructed to 
extend and fund current research projects under title V of TEA-21 
through February 29, 2004.
    Sec. 121. Of the amount appropriated or otherwise made available 
for Transportation, Planning, and Research, $850,000 shall be available 
for interior air quality demonstration activities at the Bristol, 
Virginia, control facility to evaluate standard industrial fuel system 
performance and efficiency with drive-by-wire engine management and 
emissions systems and $1,000,000 shall be available for the Market 
Street enhancement project in Burlington, Vermont.
    Sec. 122. Of the funds made available or limited in this Act, 
$3,000,000 shall be available for improvements to Bowman Road and 
Johnnie Dodds Boulevard, Highway 17, Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina; 
$1,000,000 shall be for the Arkwright Connector and no funds shall be 
available for the Northwest Bypass project.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

                          motor carrier safety

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for administration of motor carrier safety 
programs and motor carrier safety research, pursuant to section 
104(a)(1)(B) of title 23, United States Code, not to exceed 
$292,972,233 shall be paid in accordance with law from appropriations 
made available by this Act and from any available take-down balances to 
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, together with advances 
and reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration: Provided, That such amounts shall be available to carry 
out the functions and operations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $11,744,000 of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be transferred to and merged with funding provided for 
grants to the States for implementation of section 210 of Public Law 
106-159 under ``Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Motor 
Carrier Safety Assistance Program'': Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $47,000,000 shall be available 
for the border enforcement program as authorized under section 350 of 
the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2002.

                 national motor carrier safety program

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102, 31106 and 31309, 
$190,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $190,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants'', and ``Information Systems''.

         general provision--motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act shall be used to implement or enforce any provision of the Final 
Rule issued on April 16, 2003 (Docket No. FMCSA-97-2350) as it may 
apply to operators of utility service vehicles as defined in 49 C.F.R. 
395.2.
    Sec. 131. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act may be used to implement or enforce any provisions of the Final 
Rule, issued on April 16, 2003 (Docket No. FMCSA-97-2350), with respect 
to either of the following:
            (1) The operators of utility service vehicles, as that term 
        is defined in section 395.2 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (2) Maximum daily hours of service for drivers engaged in 
        the transportation of property or passengers to or from a 
        motion picture or television production site located within a 
        100-air mile radius of the work reporting location of such 
        drivers.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 
49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United 
States Code, $148,102,000, to be derived from funds available under 
104(a)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code: Provided, That such funds 
shall be transferred to and administered by the National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, 
finalize, or implement any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of 
title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining 
to a grading standard that is different from the three grading 
standards (treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance) already in 
effect.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2004, are in 
excess of $72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

                        national driver register

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $3,600,000, to be derived from the Highway 
Trust Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, and 410, to remain available until expended, $225,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2004, are in 
excess of $225,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, and 410, of which $165,000,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402, $20,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant 
Protection Incentive Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, and $40,000,000 
shall be for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' under 
23 U.S.C. 410: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or 
structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $8,150,000 of the 
funds made available for section 402, not to exceed $1,000,000 of the 
funds made available for section 405, and not to exceed $2,000,000 of 
the funds made available for section 410 shall be available to NHTSA 
for administering highway safety grants under chapter 4 of title 23, 
United States Code: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of 
the funds made available for section 410 ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving 
Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available for technical assistance to 
the States.

   general provisions--national highway traffic safety administration

    Sec. 140. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, States may 
use funds provided in this Act under section 402 of title 23, United 
States Code, to produce and place highway safety public service 
messages in television, radio, cinema, and print media, and on the 
Internet in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of 
Transportation: Provided, That any State that uses funds for such 
public service messages shall submit to the Secretary a report 
describing and assessing the effectiveness of the messages: Provided 
further, That $10,000,000 of the funds allocated under section 157 of 
title 23, United States Code, shall be used as directed by the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administrator to purchase national paid 
advertising (including production and placement) to support national 
safety belt mobilizations: Provided further, That, of the funds 
allocated under section 163 of title 23, United States Code, $2,750,000 
shall be used as directed by the Administrator to support national 
impaired driving mobilizations and enforcement efforts, $14,000,000 
shall be used as directed by the Administrator to purchase national 
paid advertising (including production and placement) to support such 
national impaired driving mobilizations and enforcement efforts, 
$250,000 shall be used as directed by the Administrator to conduct an 
evaluation of alcohol-impaired driving messages, and $3,000,000 shall 
be used as directed by the Administrator to conduct an impaired driving 
demonstration program.
    Sec. 141. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited in the Act to educate the motoring public on 
how to share the road safely with commercial motor vehicles shall be 
administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $130,825,000, of which $11,712,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$34,225,000, to remain available until expended.

            railroad rehabilitation and improvement program

     The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to 
section 512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 
1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times 
as may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the 
guarantee of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 
through 513 of such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such 
guaranteed obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to 
section 502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the credit 
risk premium during fiscal year 2004: Provided further, That no 
payments of principal or interest shall be collected during fiscal year 
2004 for the direct loan made to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation under section 502 of such Act.

                    next generation high-speed rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 26101 and 26102, $29,350,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     alaska railroad rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $25,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations, to remain available 
until expended.

         grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make quarterly grants 
to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, $1,346,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Transportation shall approve funding to cover operating losses and 
capital expenditures for a train of the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation only after receiving and reviewing a grant request for each 
specific train route: Provided further, That each such grant request 
shall be accompanied by a detailed financial analysis, revenue 
projection, and capital expenditure projection justifying the Federal 
support to the Secretary's satisfaction: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Transportation and the Amtrak Board of Directors shall 
ensure that, of the amount made available under this heading, 
sufficient sums are reserved to satisfy the contractual obligations of 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for commuter and intercity 
passenger rail service: Provided further, That within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act, Amtrak shall transmit to the Secretary of 
Transportation and the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a 
business plan for operating and capital improvements to be funded in 
fiscal year 2004 under section 24104(a) of title 49, United States 
Code: Provided further, That the business plan shall include a 
description of the work to be funded, along with cost estimates and an 
estimated timetable for completion of the projects covered by this 
business plan: Provided further, That not later than June 1, 2003 and 
each month thereafter, Amtrak shall submit to the Secretary of 
Transportation and the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a 
supplemental report regarding the business plan, which shall describe 
the work completed to date, any changes to the business plan, and the 
reasons for such changes: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act may be used for operating expenses and capital projects not 
approved by the Secretary of Transportation nor on the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation's fiscal year 2004 business plan: 
Provided further, That none of the funds under this heading may be 
obligated or expended until the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
agrees to continue abiding by the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5, 
9, and 11 of the summary of conditions for the direct loan agreement of 
June 28, 2002, in the same manner as in effect on the date of enactment 
of this Act.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $14,600,000: Provided, That no more than $73,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That of the funds available not to exceed $980,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Administrator; not to exceed $6,133,000 
shall be available for the Office of Administration; not to exceed 
$3,750,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief Counsel; not 
to exceed $1,160,000 shall be available for the Office of Communication 
and Congressional Affairs; not to exceed $7,250,000 shall be available 
for the Office of Program Management; not to exceed $6,200,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Budget and Policy; not to exceed $4,600,000 
shall be available for the Office of Demonstration and Innovation; not 
to exceed $2,700,000 shall be available for the Office of Civil Rights; 
not to exceed $3,450,000 shall be available for the Office of Planning; 
not to exceed $17,777,000 shall be available for regional offices; and 
not to exceed $16,800,000 shall be available for the central account: 
Provided further, That the Administrator is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for an office of the Federal Transit Administration: 
Provided further, That no appropriation for an office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 3 percent by all such transfers: 
Provided further, That any change in funding greater than 3 percent 
shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds in this Act 
available for the execution of contracts under section 5327(c) of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000 shall be reimbursed to the 
Department of Transportation's Office of Inspector General for costs 
associated with audits and investigations of transit-related issues, 
including reviews of new fixed guideway systems: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $2,200,000 for the National transit database shall remain 
available until expended.

                             formula grants

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $767,800,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,839,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 3008 of Public 
Law 105-178, $50,000,000 of the funds to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308 shall 
be transferred to and merged with funding provided for the replacement, 
rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related equipment and the 
construction of bus-related facilities under ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Capital investment grants''.

                   university transportation research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                     transit planning and research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $24,400,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $122,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)), $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315), 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)), $60,385,600 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305), $12,614,400 is available for 
State planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $31,500,000 is available for 
the national planning and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314).

                      trust fund share of expenses

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $5,844,000,000, to remain available until expended, and to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That $3,071,200,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$97,600,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
transit planning and research account: Provided further, That 
$58,400,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
administrative expenses account: Provided further, That $4,800,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation research account: Provided further, That $100,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job access and 
reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That $2,512,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's capital 
investment grants account.

                       capital investment grants

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $628,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $3,140,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That there shall be available for 
fixed guideway modernization, $1,214,400,000; there shall be available 
for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related 
equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, $607,200,000, 
which shall include $50,000,000 made available under 5309(m)(3)(C) of 
this title, plus $50,000,000 transferred from ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Formula Grants''; and there shall be available for new 
fixed guideway systems $1,318,400,000, to be available as follows:
            Alaska and Hawaii Ferry Projects, $10,296,000;
            Baltimore--Central LRT Double Tracking, Maryland, 
        $40,000,000;
            Birmingham--Transit Corridor, Alabama, $6,000,000;
            Boston--Silver Line Phase III, Massachusetts, $1,000,000;
            Charlotte--South Corridor Light Rail Project, North 
        Carolina, $18,000,000;
            Chicago--Douglas Branch Reconstruction, Illinois, 
        $85,000,000;
            Chicago--North Central, Illinois, $20,000,000;
            Chicago--UP West Line Extension, Illinois, $12,000,000;
            Chicago--Metra Southwest Corridor Commuter Rail, Illinois, 
        $20,000,000;
            Chicago--Ravenswood Line Extension, Illinois, $10,000,000;
            Commuter Rail Improvements, Delaware, $3,000,000;
            Dallas--North Central LRT Extension, Texas, $30,161,283;
            Denver--Southeast Corridor LRT, Colorado, $80,000,000;
            Dulles Corridor Rapid Transit Project, Virginia, 
        $25,000,000;
            Euclid Corridor Transportation Project, Ohio, $15,000,000;
            Ft. Lauderdale--Tri-Rail Commuter Rail Upgrade, Florida, 
        $18,410,000;
            Houston Advanced Metro Transit Plan, Texas, $10,000,000;
            Integrated Intermodal project, Rhode Island, $6,000,000;
            Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee Commuter Rail Extension, 
        Wisconsin, $4,000,000;
            Las Vegas--Resort Corridor Fixed Guideway, Nevada, 
        $25,000,000;
            Little Rock--River Rail Project, Arkansas, $5,000,000;
            Los Angeles--Eastside LRT, California, $5,000,000;
            Maine Marine Highway, $2,000,000;
            Memphis--Medical Center Extension, Tennessee, $9,247,588;
            Minneapolis--Hiawatha Corridor LRT, Minnesota, $74,980,000;
            Minneapolis--Northstar Commuter Rail Project, Minnesota, 
        $10,000,000;
            New Orleans--Canal Street Streetcar Project, Louisiana, 
        $36,020,000;
            New York--East Side Access Project, New York, $10,000,000;
            Newark Rail Link (MOS-1), New Jersey, $22,566,022;
            Northern New Jersey-Hudson-Bergen LRT-MOS-2, $100,000,000;
            Northwest Corridor BRT, Atlanta, $4,000,000;
            Philadelphia--Schuylkill Valley Metro, Pennsylvania, 
        $16,000,000;
            Pittsburgh--North Shore Connector LRT, Pennsylvania, 
        $13,812,304;
            Pittsburgh--Stage II LRT Reconstruction, Pennsylvania, 
        $32,243,442;
            Portland--Interstate MAX LRT Extension, Oregon, 
        $77,500,000;
            Regional Commuter Rail (Weber County to Salt Lake City), 
        Utah, $12,000,000;
            Salt Lake City--Medical Center, Utah, $30,663,361;
            San Diego--Mission Valley East LRT Extension, California, 
        $65,000,000;
            San Diego--Oceanside Escondido Rail Project, California, 
        $48,000,000;
            San Juan--Tren Urbano Rapid Transit System, Puerto Rico, 
        $20,000,000;
            Scranton--NY City Rail Service, Pennsylvania, $5,000,000;
            Seattle--Central Link LRT MOS-1, Washington, $75,000,000;
            SF Area--BART Airport Extension, California, $100,000,000;
            Silicon Valley Rapid Transit Corridor, California, 
        $4,000,000;
            Stamford Urban Transitway Phase II, Connecticut, 
        $7,000,000;
            Trans-Hudson Midtown Corridor, New Jersey, $5,000,000;
            Triangle Transit Authority Regional Rail Phase I Project, 
        North Carolina, $9,000,000;
            VRE Parking Improvements, Virginia, $4,000,000;
            Washington, DC/Maryland--Largo Extension, $65,000,000;
            Wilmington Train Station Improvements, Delaware, 
        $2,500,000;
            Wilsonville-Beaverton Commuter Rail, Oregon, $6,000,000;
            Yarmouth to Auburn Line, Maine, $3,000,000.

                 job access and reverse commute grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $125,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes: Provided further, That up to $300,000 of 
the funds provided under this heading may be used by the Federal 
Transit Administration for technical assistance and support and 
performance reviews of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants 
program.

           general provisions--federal transit administration

    Sec. 150. The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 151. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except 
for fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this 
Act under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' 
for projects specified in this Act or identified in reports 
accompanying this Act not obligated by September 30, 2006, and other 
recoveries, shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 
5309.
    Sec. 152. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2003, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 153. Funds made available for Alaska or Hawaii ferry boats or 
ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be 
used to construct new vessels and facilities, or to improve existing 
vessels and facilities, including both the passenger and vehicle-
related elements of such vessels and facilities, and for repair 
facilities: Provided, That not more than $3,000,000 of the funds made 
available pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be used by the State 
of Hawaii to initiate and operate a passenger ferryboat services 
demonstration project to test the viability of different intra-island 
and inter-island ferry boat routes and technology: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5302(a)(7), funds made available for 
Alaska or Hawaii ferry boats may be used to acquire passenger ferry 
boats and to provide passenger ferry transportation services within 
areas of the State of Hawaii under the control or use of the National 
Park Service.
    Sec. 154. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available to the Colorado Roaring Fork Transportation Authority under 
``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' in Public 
Laws 106-69 and 106-346 shall be available for expenditure on park and 
ride lots in Carbondale and Glenwood Springs, Colorado as part of the 
Roaring Fork Valley Bus Rapid Transit project.
    Sec. 155. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated 
funds made available for a new fixed guideway systems projects under 
the heading ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital Investment 
Grants'' in any appropriations act prior to this Act may be used during 
this fiscal year to satisfy expenses incurred for such projects.
    Sec. 156. (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a pilot 
program to determine the benefits of encouraging cooperative 
procurement of major capital equipment under sections 5307, 5309, and 
5311. The program shall consist of three pilot projects. Cooperative 
procurements in these projects may be carried out by grantees, 
consortiums of grantees, or members of the private sector acting as 
agents of grantees.
    (b) Federal Share.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Federal share for a grant under this pilot program shall be 90 percent 
of the net project cost.
    (c) Permissible Activities.--
            (1) Developing specifications.--Cooperative specifications 
        may be developed either by the grantees or their agents.
            (2) Requests for proposals.--To the extent permissible 
        under state and local law, cooperative procurements under this 
        section may be carried out, either by the grantees or their 
        agents, by issuing one request for proposal for each 
        cooperative procurement, covering all agencies that are 
        participating in the procurement.
            (3) Best and final offers.--The cost of evaluating best and 
        final offers either by the grantees or their agents, is an 
        eligible expense under this program.
    (d) Technology.--To the extent feasible, cooperative procurements 
under this section shall maximize use of Internet-based software 
technology designed specifically for transit buses and other major 
capital equipment to develop specifications; aggregate equipment 
requirements with other transit agencies; generate cooperative request 
for proposal packages; create cooperative specifications; and automate 
the request for approved equals process.
    (e) Eligible Expenses.--The cost of the permissible activities 
under (c) and procurement under (d) are eligible expenses under the 
pilot program.
    (f) Proportionate Contributions.--Cooperating agencies may 
contribute proportionately to the non-Federal share of any of the 
eligible expenses under (e).
    (g) Outreach.--The Secretary shall conduct outreach on cooperative 
procurement. Under this program the Secretary shall: (1) offer 
technical assistance to transit agencies to facilitate the use of 
cooperative procurement of major capital equipment and (2) conduct 
seminars and conferences for grantees, nationwide, on the concept of 
cooperative procurement of major capital equipment.
    (h) Report.--Not later than 30 days after delivery of the base 
order under each of the pilot projects, the Secretary shall submit to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report on the 
results of that pilot project. Each report shall evaluate any savings 
realized through the cooperative procurement and the benefits of 
incorporating cooperative procurement, as shown by that project, into 
the mass transit program as a whole.
    Sec. 157. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, new fixed 
guideway system funds available for the Yosemite, California, area 
regional transportation system project, in the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002, Public 
Law 107-87, under ``Capital Investment Grants'', in the amount of 
$400,000 shall be available for obligation for the replacement, 
rehabilitation, or purchase of buses or related equipment, or the 
construction of bus related facilities: Provided, That this amount 
shall be in addition to the amount available in fiscal year 2002 for 
these purposes.
    Sec. 158. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purpose of calculating the non-New Starts share of the total project 
cost of both phases of San Francisco Muni's Third Street Light Rail 
Transit project for fiscal year 2004, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall include all non-New Starts contributions made towards Phase 1 of 
the two-phase project for engineering, final design and construction, 
and also shall allow non-New Starts funds expended on one element or 
phase of the project to be used to meet the non-New Starts share 
requirement of any element or phase of the project.
    Sec. 159. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital Investment 
Grants'' in Public Law 105-277 for the Cleveland Berea Red Line 
Extension to the Hopkins International Airport project may be used for 
the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

             saint lawrence seaway development corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $14,400,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

                        Maritime Administration

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $106,000,000, of which $13,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for capital improvements at the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy, and $7,063,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2005 for state maritime schoolship maintenance and 
repair.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$18,422,000, to remain available until expended.

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $98,700,000, to remain available until expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, not to exceed $4,498,000, which shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for Operations and Training.

              general provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 160. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Maritime Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services 
and make necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or 
occupancy involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefore shall be credited to 
the appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    Sec. 161. No obligations shall be incurred during the current 
fiscal year from the construction fund established by the Merchant 
Marine Act, 1936, or otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and 
limitations contained in this Act or in any prior appropriation Act.

              Research and Special Programs Administration

                     research and special programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $42,516,000, of which $645,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $3,473,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$67,612,000, of which $17,183,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2006; of which $50,429,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety 
Fund, of which $22,710,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2006.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2006: Provided, That not more than $14,300,000 
shall be made available for obligation in fiscal year 2004 from amounts 
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d): Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall 
be made available for obligation by individuals other than the 
Secretary of Transportation, or his designee.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$56,000,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3) to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of 
title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and 
unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air carriers and 
ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $19,521,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,050,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2004, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $18,471,000.

                  TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $3,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2005 for information technology modernization 
requirements; not to exceed $150,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate, $174,809,000: Provided, That 
the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall be funded at no less than 
$21,855,000 and 120 full time equivalent positions: Provided further, 
That of these amounts, $2,900,000 is available for grants to State and 
local law enforcement groups to help fight money laundering: Provided 
further, That of these amounts, $3,393,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2005, shall be for the Treasury-wide Financial Statement 
Audit Program, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be 
transferred to accounts of the Department's offices and bureaus to 
conduct audits: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other provided in this Act.

        department-wide systems and capital investments programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$36,928,000, to remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, 
That these funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as 
necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, 
bureaus, and other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
shall be used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service 
appropriations for Information Systems or Business Systems 
Modernization.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury, $12,687,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for 
police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not to 
exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; and not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $128,034,000.

                air transportation stabilization program

    For necessary expenses to administer the Air Transportation 
Stabilization Board established by section 102 of the Air 
Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (Public Law 107-42), 
$2,538,000, to remain available until expended.

           treasury building and annex repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, $25,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2006.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $57,571,000, of which not to 
exceed $4,500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2006; and 
of which $8,152,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2005: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to 
procure personal services contracts.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$228,558,000, of which not to exceed $9,220,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2006, for information systems modernization 
initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$80,000,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research 
and development programs for Laboratory Services; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
reimbursement.

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the 
United States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint 
Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments. The aggregate amount 
of new liabilities and obligations incurred during fiscal year 2004 
under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and protective service 
capital investments of the United States Mint shall not exceed 
$40,652,000.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $178,052,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for systems modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein 
from the General Fund for fiscal year 2004 shall be reduced by not more 
than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2004 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
$173,652,000. In addition, $40,000 to be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and 
personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as authorized 
by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for pre-
filing taxpayer assistance and education, filing and account services, 
shared services support, general management and administration; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $4,048,238,000, of which up to 
$3,950,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which $7,000,000 shall be available for low-income taxpayer clinic 
grants, and of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement activities; 
securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; conducting a 
document matching program; resolving taxpayer problems through prompt 
identification, referral and settlement; resolving essential earned 
income tax credit compliance and error problems; compiling statistics 
of income and conducting compliance research; purchase (for police-type 
use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services as authorized by U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Commissioner, $4,172,808,000, of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2006, for 
research: Provided, That such sums may be transferred as necessary from 
this account to the IRS Processing, Assistance, and Management 
appropriation or the IRS Information Systems appropriation solely for 
the purposes of management of the Earned Income Tax Compliance program 
and to reimburse the Social Security Administration for the cost of 
implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 (Public 
Law 105-33): Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.

                          information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,590,962,000, of which $200,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2005.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$429,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2006, for the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, 
including contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That none of these funds may be obligated until 
the Internal Revenue Service submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations, and such Committees approve, a plan for expenditure 
that: (1) meets the capital planning and investment control review 
requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget, 
including Circular A-11 part 3; (2) complies with the Internal Revenue 
Service's enterprise architecture, including the modernization 
blueprint; (3) conforms with the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise 
life cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the Internal Revenue 
Service, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of Management 
and Budget; (5) has been reviewed by the General Accounting Office; and 
(6) complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and 
systems acquisition management practices of the Federal Government.

               health insurance tax credit administration

    For expenses necessary to implement the health insurance tax credit 
included in the Trade Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-210), $35,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2005.

              general provisions--internal revenue service

    Sec. 201. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 202. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 203. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information.
    Sec. 204. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the 
improvement of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and 
staff to improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 205. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate to issue any rule or 
regulation which implements the proposed amendments to Internal Revenue 
Service regulations set forth in REG-209500-86 and REG-164464-02, filed 
December 10, 2002, or any amendments reaching results similar to such 
proposed amendments.
    Sec. 206. Study on Earned Income Tax Credit Certification Program. 
(a) Study.--The Internal Revenue Service shall conduct a study, as a 
part of any program that requires certification (including pre-
certification) in order to claim the earned income tax credit under 
section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, on the following 
matters:
            (1) The costs (in time and money) incurred by the 
        participants in the program.
            (2) The administrative costs incurred by the Internal 
        Revenue Service in operating the program.
            (3) The percentage of individuals included in the program 
        who were not certified for the credit, including the percentage 
        of individuals who were not certified due to--
                    (A) ineligibility for the credit; and
                    (B) failure to complete the requirements for 
                certification.
            (4) The percentage of individuals to whom paragraph (3)(B) 
        applies who were--
                    (A) otherwise eligible for the credit; and
                    (B) otherwise ineligible for the credit.
            (5) The percentage of individuals to whom paragraph (3)(B) 
        applies who--
                    (A) did not respond to the request for 
                certification; and
                    (B) responded to such request but otherwise failed 
                to complete the requirements for certification.
    (6) The reasons--
                    (A) for which individuals described in paragraph 
                (5)(A) did not respond to requests for certification; 
                and
                    (B) for which individuals described in paragraph 
                (5)(B) had difficulty in completing the requirements 
                for certification.
            (7) The characteristics of those individuals who were 
        denied the credit due to--
                    (A) failure to complete the requirements for 
                certification; and
                    (B) ineligibility for the credit.
            (8) The impact of the program on non-English speaking 
        participants.
            (9) The impact of the program on homeless and other highly 
        transient individuals.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) Preliminary report.--Not later than July 30, 2004, the 
        Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service shall submit to 
        Congress a preliminary report on the study conducted under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Final report.--Not later than June 30, 2005, the 
        Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service shall submit to 
        Congress a final report detailing the findings of the study 
        conducted under subsection (a).

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 210. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 211. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices--Salaries and Expenses, 
Office of Inspector General, Financial Management Service, Alcohol and 
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Financial Crime Enforcement Network, and 
Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 212. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 213. Of the funds available for the purchase of law 
enforcement vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of 
the Treasury certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury 
bureau is consistent with Departmental vehicle management principles: 
Provided, That the Secretary may delegate this authority to the 
Assistant Secretary for Management.
    Sec. 214. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 215. The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Financial Management Service, to the Debt 
Services Account as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection: 
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such Salaries and 
Expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Services 
Account.
    Sec. 216. Section 122(g)(1) of Public Law 105-119 (5 U.S.C. 3104 
note), is further amended by striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``6 
years''.
    Sec. 217. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Senate Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 218. Beginning in fiscal year 2004 and thereafter, there are 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be 
necessary to reimburse financial institutions in their capacity as 
depositaries and financial agents of the United States for all services 
required or directed by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, 
to be performed by such financial institutions on behalf of the 
Treasury or other Federal agencies, including services rendered prior 
to fiscal year 2004.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102, 
$450,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not 
to exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available 
for allocation within the Executive Office of the President, 
$61,937,000: Provided, That $8,650,000 of the funds appropriated shall 
be available for reimbursements to the White House Communications 
Agency.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $12,501,000, to be expended 
and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $4,225,000, to remain available until 
expended, for required maintenance, safety and health issues, and 
continued preventative maintenance.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,461,000.

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the Vice President, to 
be accounted for solely on his certificate, $331,000: Provided, That 
advances or repayments or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisors in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021), $4,502,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, 
$4,109,000.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $10,551,000.

                       Homeland Security Council

    For necessary expenses of the Homeland Security Council, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $8,331,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $77,164,000, of which $20,578,000 shall 
remain available until expended for the Capital Investment Plan for 
continued modernization of the information technology infrastructure 
within the Executive Office of the President: Provided, That the 
Executive Office of the President shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations that includes a current description of: 
(1) the Enterprise Architecture, as defined in OMB Circular A-130 and 
the Federal Chief Information Officers Council guidance; (2) the 
Information Technology (IT) Human Capital Plan; (3) the capital 
investment plan for implementing the Enterprise Architecture; and (4) 
the IT capital planning and investment control process: Provided 
further, That this report shall be reviewed and approved by the Office 
of Management and Budget, and reviewed by the General Accounting 
Office.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $75,417,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for official representation expenses: Provided, That, as 
provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall be applied only to 
the objects for which appropriations were made except as otherwise 
provided by law: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
in this Act for the Office of Management and Budget may be used for the 
purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing orders or any 
activities or regulations under the provisions of the Agricultural 
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for the Office of 
Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for testimony 
of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before the 
Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' Affairs or 
their subcommittees: Provided further, That the preceding shall not 
apply to printed hearings released by the Committees on Appropriations 
or the Committees on Veterans' Affairs: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this Act may be available to pay the salary 
or expenses of any employee of the Office of Management and Budget who 
calculates, prepares, or approves any tabular or other material that 
proposes the sub-allocation of budget authority or outlays by the 
Committees on Appropriations among their subcommittees.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); 
not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision 
of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$27,996,500; of which $1,350,000 shall remain available until expended 
for policy research and evaluation; and $1,500,000 for the National 
Alliance for Model State Drug Laws: Provided, That the Office is 
authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real 
and personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, for 
the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
$42,000,000, which shall remain available until expended, consisting of 
$18,000,000 for counternarcotics research and development projects, and 
$24,000,000 for the continued operation of the technology transfer 
program: Provided, That the $18,000,000 for counternarcotics research 
and development projects shall be available for transfer to other 
Federal departments or agencies.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $226,350,000, 
for drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for 
each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
no less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities, which shall be obligated within 
120 days of the date of the enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 
49 percent, to remain available until September 30, 2005, may be 
transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be 
determined by the Director, of which not less than $2,100,000 shall be 
used for auditing services and associated activities: Provided further, 
That High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Programs designated as of 
September 30, 2002, shall be funded at no less than the fiscal year 
2002 initial allocation levels unless the Director submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations, and the Committees approve, justification 
for changes in those levels based on clearly articulated priorities for 
the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Programs, as well as 
published Office of National Drug Control Policy performance measures 
of effectiveness: Provided further, That a request shall be submitted 
to the Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of funds of an amount in excess of the fiscal year 2004 
budget request: Provided further, That such request shall be made in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines: Provided further, That no 
funds shall be used for any further or additional consolidation of the 
Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, except for the 
operation of an office with a coordinating role, until the Office 
submits a report on the structure of the Southwest Border High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and for other purposes, authorized by the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
$174,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which the 
following amounts are available as follows: $100,000,000 to support a 
national media campaign, as authorized by the Drug-Free Media Campaign 
Act of 1998; $60,000,000 to continue a program of matching grants to 
drug-free communities, of which $1,000,000 shall be a directed grant to 
the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America for the National 
Community Anti-Drug Coalition Institute, as authorized in chapter 2 of 
the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, as amended; $1,500,000 
for the Counterdrug Intelligence Executive Secretariat; $2,000,000 for 
evaluations and research related to National Drug Control Program 
performance measures; $1,000,000 for the National Drug Court Institute; 
$7,200,000 for the United States Anti-Doping Agency for anti-doping 
activities; and $800,000 for the United States membership dues to the 
World Anti-Doping Agency: Provided, That such funds may be transferred 
to other Federal departments and agencies to carry out such activities.

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

       Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended $5,401,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-28, 
$4,725,000.

                     Election Assistance Commission

    For necessary expenses of the Election Assistance Commission, 
$1,500,000,000, for providing grants to assist State and local efforts 
to improve election technology and the administration of Federal 
elections, as authorized by the Help America Vote Act of 2002: 
Provided, That no more than \1/10\ of 1 percent of funds available for 
requirements payments under Section 257 of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 shall be allocated to any territory.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $50,440,000, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and representation 
expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $29,611,000: Provided, 
That public members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid 
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the 
Government service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received 
from fees charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management 
relations conferences shall be credited to and merged with this 
account, to be available without further appropriation for the costs of 
carrying out these conferences.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, $18,471,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount to be deposited in, and to be used for the 
purposes of, the Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended 
(40 U.S.C. 592), $407,000,000. The revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for, 
including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including 
grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $6,717,247,000, of which: (1) 
$659,668,000 shall remain available until expended for construction 
(including funds for sites and expenses and associated design and 
construction services) of additional projects at the following 
locations:
            New Construction:
                    Alabama:
                            Anniston, United States Courthouse, 
                        $4,400,000
                            Tuscaloosa, Federal Building, $7,500,000
                    California:
                            Los Angeles, United States Courthouse, 
                        $50,000,000
                            San Diego, Border Station, $34,211,000
                    Colorado:
                            Denver Federal Center, site remediation, 
                        $6,000,000
                    Florida:
                            Orlando, United States Courthouse, 
                        $7,200,000
                    Maine:
                            Jackman, Border Station, $7,712,000
                    Maryland:
                            Montgomery County, Food and Drug 
                        Administration Consolidation, $45,000,000
                            Suitland, United States Census Bureau, 
                        $146,451,000
                    Michigan:
                            Detroit, Ambassador Bridge Border Station, 
                        $25,387,000
                    New York:
                            Champlain, Border Station, $31,031,000
                    North Carolina:
                            Charlotte, United States Courthouse, 
                        $8,500,000
                    Ohio:
                            Toledo, United States Courthouse, 
                        $6,500,000
                    Pennsylvania:
                            Harrisburg, PA, United States Courthouse, 
                        $26,000,000
                    South Carolina:
                            Greenville, United States Courthouse, 
                        $11,000,000
                    Texas:
                            Del Rio, Border Station, $23,966,000
                            Eagle Pass, Border Station, $31,980,000
                            Houston, Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
                        $58,080,000
                            McAllen, Border Station, $17,938,000
                            San Antonio, United States Courthouse, 
                        $8,000,000
                    Virginia:
                            Richmond, United States Courthouse, 
                        $83,000,000
                    Washington:
                            Blaine, Border Station, $9,812,000
                    Nonprospectus Construction, $10,000,000:
Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent of the 
amounts included in an approved prospectus, if required, unless advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater 
amount: Provided further, That all funds for direct construction 
projects shall expire on September 30, 2005, and remain in the Federal 
Buildings Fund except for funds for projects as to which funds for 
design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to 
such date; (2) $1,000,939,000 shall remain available until expended for 
repairs and alterations, which includes associated design and 
construction services: Provided further, That funds in the Federal 
Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for prospectus 
projects, be limited to the amount by project, as follows, except each 
project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a 
greater amount:
            Repairs and Alterations:
                    Colorado:
                            Denver, Byron G. Rogers Federal Building--
                        Courthouse, $39,436,000
                    District of Columbia:
                            320 First Street, $7,485,000
                            Eisenhower Executive Office Building, 
                        $65,757,000
                            Federal Office Building 8, $134,872,000
                            Main Interior Building, $15,603,000
                            Fire & Life Safety, $68,188,000
                    Georgia:
                            Atlanta, Richard B. Russell Federal 
                        Building, $32,173,000
                    Illinois:
                            Chicago, Dirksen Courthouse & Kluczynski 
                        Federal Building, $24,056,000
                            Springfield, Paul H. Findley Federal 
                        Building--Courthouse, $6,183,000
                    Indiana:
                            Terra Haute Federal Building--Post Office, 
                        $4,600,000
                    Massachusetts:
                            Boston, John W. McCormack Post Office and 
                        Courthouse, $73,037,000
                    New York:
                            Brooklyn, Emanuel Celler Courthouse, 
                        $65,511,000
                    North Dakota:
                            Fargo, Federal Building--Post Office, 
                        $5,801,000
                    Ohio:
                            Columbus, John W. Bricker Federal Building, 
                        $10,707,000
                    Washington:
                            Auburn, Building 7, Auburn Federal 
                        Building, $18,315,000
                            Bellingham, Federal Building, $2,610,000
                            Seattle, Henry M. Jackson Federal Building, 
                        $6,868,000
            Special Emphasis Programs:
                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $5,000,000
                    Energy Program, $5,000,000
                    Glass Fragmentation Program, $20,000,000
                    Design Program, $34,737,000
                    Basic Repairs and Alterations, $355,000,000:
Provided further, That funds made available in any previous Act in the 
Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for 
prospectus projects, be limited to the amount identified for each 
project, except each project in any previous Act may be increased by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have been 
fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or 
used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects 
shall expire on September 30, 2005 and remain in the Federal Buildings 
Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects: Provided further, That the funds available herein for repairs 
to the Bellingham, Washington, Federal Building, shall be available for 
transfer to the city of Bellingham, Washington, subject to disposal of 
the building to the city; (3) $169,745,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain 
available until expended; (4) $3,278,187,000 for rental of space which 
shall remain available until expended; and (5) $1,608,708,000 for 
building operations which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall not be available for expenses of any construction, 
repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if 
required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been 
approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each project 
for required expenses for the development of a proposed prospectus: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund 
may be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts 
necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2)) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government ownership or 
control as may be appropriate to enable the United States Secret 
Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
shall be available from such revenues and collections: Provided 
further, That revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to 
this Fund during fiscal year 2004, excluding reimbursements under 
section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services 
Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2)) in excess of $6,717,247,000 shall 
remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, telecommunications, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $61,781,000.

                           operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; 
telecommunications, information technology management, and related 
technology activities; providing citizens with Internet access to 
Federal information and services; agency-wide policy direction and 
management, and Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $7,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $85,083,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $39,169,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

                   electronic government (e-gov) fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in support of interagency projects that 
enable the Federal Government to expand its ability to conduct 
activities electronically, through the development and implementation 
of innovative uses of the Internet and other electronic methods, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds may be transferred to Federal agencies to carry out the purposes 
of the Fund: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act: Provided 
further, That such transfers may not be made until 10 days after a 
proposed spending plan and justification for each project to be 
undertaken has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $3,393,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

          general services administration--general provisions

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2004 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2005 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2005 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 
section 110 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 757) and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of the Clinger-Cohen 
Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1424(b) and 1428), for performance of pilot 
information technology projects which have potential for Government-
wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from any savings 
actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the extent 
feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims 
against the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct 
construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 408. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of General Services is authorized to acquire, under such 
terms and conditions as he deems to be in the interests of the United 
States, approximately 27 acres of land, identified as Site 7 and 
located at 234 Corporate Drive, Pease International Tradeport, 
Portsmouth, NH 03801, as a site for the public building needs of the 
Federal Government, and to design and construct upon the site a new 
Federal Office Building of approximately 98,000 gross square feet: 
Provided, That the Administrator shall not acquire any property under 
this subsection until the Administrator determines that the property is 
in compliance with applicable environmental laws, and that the property 
is suitable and available for use as a site to house the Federal 
agencies presently located in the Thomas J. McIntyre Federal Building.
    (b) For the site acquisition, design, construction, and relocation, 
$11,149,000 shall be available from funds previously provided under the 
heading ``General Services Administration, Real Property Activities, 
Federal Buildings Fund'' in Public Law 108-7 for repairs and 
alterations to the Thomas J. McIntyre Federal Building in Portsmouth, 
New Hampshire, which was included in the plan for expenditure of 
repairs and alterations funds as required by accompanying House Report 
108-10.
    (c) For any additional costs of construction, management and 
inspection of the new facility to house the Federal agencies relocated 
from the McIntyre Federal Office Building, and for the costs of 
relocating the Federal agencies occupying the McIntyre Federal Office 
Building, $13,669,000 shall be deposited into the Federal Buildings 
Fund (40 U.S.C. 592) from the General Fund; which amount, together with 
the amount set forth in subsection (b) of this section shall remain 
available until expended and shall be subject to such escalation and 
reprogramming authorities available to the Administrator for any other 
new construction projects under the heading ``Federal Building Fund 
Limitations on Availability of Revenue''.
    (d) The Administrator is authorized and directed to convey, without 
consideration, the Thomas J. McIntyre Federal Office Building to the 
City of Portsmouth, New Hampshire for economic development purposes 
subject to the following conditions: (i) that all Federal agencies 
currently occupying the McIntyre Building except the United States 
Postal Service are completely relocated to the new Federal Building for 
so long as those agencies have continuing mission needs for that new 
location, (ii) that the requirements of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411 et seq.) shall not apply to this 
conveyance; and (iii) that the Administrator may include in the 
conveyance documents such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
determines in the best interest of the United States.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $32,877,000 together with not to exceed 
$2,626,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals 
to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund 
in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

 Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental 
                           Policy Foundation

 morris k. udall scholarship and excellence in national environmental 
                           policy trust fund

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Policy Trust Fund, pursuant to the Morris K. 
Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and Native 
American Public Policy Act of 1992 (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), 
$1,996,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That up to 60 
percent of such funds may be transferred by the Morris K. Udall 
Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation 
for the necessary expenses of the Native Nations Institute.

                 environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $1,309,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and archived Federal records and related activities, as provided by 
law, and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $258,191,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide 
adequate storage for holdings.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $13,483,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $2,025,000 is for land acquisition 
for a site in Anchorage, Alaska to construct a new regional archives 
and records facility and of which $5,000,000 is for the repair and 
restoration of the plaza that surrounds the Lyndon Baines Johnson 
Presidential Library and that is under the joint control and custody of 
the University of Texas: Provided, That such funds may be transferred 
directly to the University and used, together with University funds, 
for repair and restoration of the plaza and remain available until 
expended for this purpose: Provided further, That the same transfer 
authority shall extend to funds previously appropriated in Public Law 
108-7 for this purpose.

        National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902) 
$72,170,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                             emergency fund

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board 
for accident investigations, $600,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That these funds shall be available only to the 
extent necessary to restore the balance of the emergency fund to 
$2,000,000 (29 U.S.C. 1118 (b)).

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to 
exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$10,738,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $118,748,000, 
of which $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the cost 
of the enterprise human resources integration project, and $2,500,000 
shall remain available until expended for the cost of leading the 
government-wide initiative to modernize the Federal payroll systems and 
service delivery and $2,500,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2005 to coordinate and conduct program evaluation and 
performance measurement; and in addition $135,914,000 for 
administrative expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate trust 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management without regard to other 
statutes, including direct procurement of printed materials, for the 
retirement and insurance programs, of which $36,700,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the cost of automating the retirement 
recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the provisions of this 
appropriation shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust 
funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8909(g), and 9004(f)(1)(A) 
and (2)(A) of title 5, United States Code: Provided further, That no 
part of this appropriation shall be available for salaries and expenses 
of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of Personnel Management 
established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or 
any successor unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the 
President's Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2004, 
accept donations of money, property, and personal services in 
connection with the development of a publicity brochure to provide 
information about the White House Fellows, except that no such 
donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of travel 
expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $1,498,000, and in addition, not to exceed $14,427,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

      For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), as amended, the 
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), as amended, 
Public Law 103-424, and the Uniformed Services Employment and 
Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $13,504,000.

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $65,521,000, of which $36,521,000 
shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 2004: Provided, 
That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to 
be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of 
mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act 
shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging 
any officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices in fiscal year 2004.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $40,187,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.

      White House Commission on the National Moment of Remembrance

    For necessary expenses of the White House Commission on the 
National Moment of Remembrance, $250,000.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 501. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 502. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2004 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 503. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 106 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision or political and Presidential 
appointees in an independent agency funded in this Act may be assigned 
on temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation or such 
independent agency.
    Sec. 505. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 507. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 508. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 509. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 510. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited 
respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid 
Highways'' account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Transit 
Planning and Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad 
Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State 
rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
20105.
    Sec. 511. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of 
an amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds in title I of this Act may be used to 
make a grant unless the Secretary of Transportation, or the Secretary 
of the department in which the Transportation Security Administration 
is operating, notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any 
discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full funding grant 
agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is announced by the department or 
its modal administrations from: (1) any discretionary grant program of 
the Federal Highway Administration other than the emergency relief 
program; (2) the airport improvement program of the Federal Aviation 
Administration; or (3) any program of the Federal Transit 
Administration other than the formula grants and fixed guideway 
modernization programs: Provided, That no notification shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 513. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated for the 
Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or 
reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 515. Funds appropriated or limited in title I of this Act 
shall be subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 
of Public Law 107-87, including that the Secretary submit a report to 
the House and Senate Appropriations Committees annually on the safety 
and security of transportation into the United States by Mexico-
domiciled motor carriers.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 517. Funds provided in this Act for the Working Capital Fund 
shall be reduced by $17,816,000, which limits fiscal year 2004 Working 
Capital Fund obligational authority for elements of the Department of 
Transportation funded in this Act to no more than $98,899,000: 
Provided, That such reductions from the budget request shall be 
allocated by the Department of Transportation to each appropriations 
account in proportion to the amount included in each account for the 
Working Capital Fund.
    Sec. 518. Amendments to Prior Surface Transportation Laws. (a) 
ISTEA High Priority Corridors.--
            (1) Section 1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2032-2033) as 
        amended, is further amended by inserting after paragraph (44) 
        the following:
            ``(45) U.S. 78 from Tupelo, Mississippi, to Memphis, 
        Tennessee.''.
    (2) Section 1105(e)(5)(A) of such Act as amended is further amended 
by striking ``and subsection (c)(42)'' and inserting after ``(c)(40),'' 
the following: ``in subsection (c)(42), and in subsection (c)(45)''.
    (3) Section 1105(e)(5)(B)(i) of such Act is amended by adding at 
the end the following: ``The portion of the route referred to in 
subsection (c)(45) and the portion of the route referred to in 
subsection (c)(42) between Tupelo, Mississippi, and Birmingham, 
Alabama, are designated as Interstate Route I-22.''.
    Sec. 519. Amounts made available in this or any other Act that the 
Secretary determines represent improper payments by the Department of 
Transportation to a third party contractor under a financial assistance 
award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments; 
        and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments: Provided, That amounts in excess of that 
        required for paragraphs (1) and (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts: Provided, That prior to the transfer of any 
                such recovery to an appropriations account, the 
                Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer: Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'', has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public 
                Law 107-300.
    Sec. 520. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer 
the unexpended balances available for the bonding assistance program 
from ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and expenses'' to ``Minority 
Business Outreach''.
    Sec. 521. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 522. In conducting the rulemaking mandated by Section 352 of 
Public Law 108-7, the Department of Transportation and any other 
agencies involved in the rulemaking shall ensure that the proposed 
rules fully and accurately reflect the findings in the General 
Accounting Office. The study concerns the adequacy of the Department's 
procedures used prior to the passage of Public Law 108-7 in order to 
ensure the security of facilities and activities described in Section 
352.
    Sec. 523. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has 
within 90 days after his release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still 
qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not been 
restored thereto.
    Sec. 524. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
America Act'').
    Sec. 525. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 526. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 527. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2004 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2004 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2005, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 528. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 529. The cost accounting standards promulgated under section 
26 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public Law 93-400; 
41 U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect to a contract under the 
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established under chapter 89 
of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 530. For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
Office pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 531. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 532. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any bridge 
that is owned and operated by a state agency (1) whose toll revenues 
are administered by a Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and (2) 
whose toll revenues provide for subsidizing of non-capital 
transportation costs, shall be eligible for assistance under this 
section but the amount of toll revenues expended for non-capital 
transportation costs shall in no event exceed the cumulative amount of 
local toll revenues used for federal interstate and federal-aid highway 
construction and improvement projects in the toll bridge corridors. 
Before authorizing an expenditure of funds under this subsection, the 
Secretary shall determine that the cumulative amount of toll revenues 
used for construction and improvement to the federal interstate and 
federal-aid highway system is greater than the cumulative amount of 
toll revenue used for non-capital transportation projects not directly 
related to the on-going operation and maintenance of the toll bridges.
    Sec. 533. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, amounts 
appropriated or limited in this Act are hereby reduced by $128,076,000. 
Such reductions shall--
            (1) be administered by the Director, Office of Management 
        and Budget;
            (2) be assessed by the Director within 30 days of enactment 
        of this Act;
            (3) be derived solely from funds appropriated or limited 
        for activities under:
                    (A) Object Class 21.0--Travel and Transportation of 
                Persons, with the exception of funds provided for the 
                travel of safety inspectors within the Department of 
                Transportation and enforcement personnel within the 
                Department of the Treasury;
                    (B) Object Class 22.0--Transportation of Things;
                    (C) Object Class 23.3--Communications, Utilities, 
                and Miscellaneous Charges, with the exception of the 
                telecommunication costs associated with the FAA air 
                traffic control system and the Internal Revenue 
                Service;
                    (D) Object Class 24.0--Printing and Reproduction, 
                with the exception of such expenses within the Internal 
                Revenue Service;
                    (E) Object Class 25.1--Advisory and Assistance 
                Services;
                    (F) Object Class 26.0--Supplies and Materials, with 
                the exception of such expenses in the United States 
                Mint;
                    (G) Object Class 31.0--Equipment, with the 
                exception of such expenses under the Internal Revenue 
                Service and the FAA Facilities and Equipment account.
            (4) be assessed by the Director on a pro-rata basis against 
        all agencies funded in this Act with adjustments necessitated 
        by the exceptions cited under subsection (3); and
            (5) not be assessed against the Department of 
        Transportation's Working Capital Fund.
    Sec. 534. None of the funds appropriated or limited in title I of 
this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission 
rules at Teterboro Airport.
    Sec. 535. Section 414(h) of title 39, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``2003'' and inserting ``2005''.
    Sec. 536. After the last section of the Federal Transit Act, 49 
U.S.C. Chapter 53, add the following section:

``SEC. XX. UTAH TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.

    ``(a) Coordination.--FTA and FHWA are directed to work with the 
Utah Transit Authority and the Utah Department of Transportation to 
coordinate the development regional commuter rail and the northern 
segment of I-15 reconstruction located in the Wasatch Front corridor 
extending from Brigham City to Payson, Utah. Coordination includes 
integration of preliminary engineering and design, a simplified method 
for allocating project costs among eligible FTA and FHWA funding 
sources, and a unified accounting and audit process.
    ``(b) Governmental Funding.--For purposes of determining and 
allocating the nongovernmental and governmental share of costs, the 
following projects comprise a related program of projects: regional 
commuter rail, the TRAX light rail system, TRAX extensions to the 
Medical Center and to the Gateway Intermodal Center, and the northern 
segment of I-15 reconstruction. The governmental share of project costs 
appropriated from the Section 5309 New Start program shall conform to 
the share specified in the extension or reauthorization of TEA21.''.
    Sec. 537. Funds apportioned to the Charleston Area Regional 
Transportation Authority to carry out section 5307 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be used to lease land, equipment, or facilities used 
in public transportation from another governmental authority in the 
same geographic area: Provided, That the non-Federal share under 
section 5307 may include revenues from the sale of advertising and 
concessions: Provided further, That this provision shall remain in 
effect until September 30, 2004, or until the Federal interest in the 
land, equipment or facilities leased reaches 80 percent of its fair 
market value at disposition, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 538. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
designated to the Pennsylvania Cumberland/Dauphin County Corridor I 
project in committee reports accompanying this Act may be available to 
the recipient for any project activities authorized under sections 5307 
and 5309 of title 49, United States Code.
    Sec. 539. None of the funds appropriated or made available under 
this Act or any other appropriations Act may be used to implement the 
proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel Management to add 
sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 5 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, published in the Federal Register, volume 68, 
number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the detail of executive 
branch employees to the legislative branch). If such proposed 
regulations are final regulations on the date of enactment of this Act, 
none of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act may be 
used to implement, administer, or enforce such final regulations.
    Sec. 540. Jackson Hole, Wyoming Radar Unit. Priority consideration 
shall be given to the Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Airport for an ASR-11 
radar unit or provisions shall be made for the acquisition or transfer 
of a comparable radar unit.
    Sec. 541. Within the funds provided for the Federal Aviation 
Administration's Facilities and Equipment account, no less than 
$14,000,000 shall be available for the Technical Center Facilities in 
New Jersey.
    Sec. 542. To the extent that funds provided by the Congress for the 
Memphis Medical Center light rail extension project through the Section 
5309 ``new fixed guideway systems'' program remain available upon the 
closeout of the project, Federal Transit Administration is directed to 
permit the Memphis Area Transit Authority to use all of those funds for 
planning, engineering, design, construction or acquisition projects 
pertaining to the Memphis Regional Rail Plan. Such funds shall remain 
available until expended.
    Sec. 543. Section 30303(d)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) is amended by inserting at the 
end:
            ``(D) Memphis-Shelby International Airport intermodal 
        facility.''.
    Sec. 544. Within available funds provided for ``Facilities and 
equipment'', $1,500,000 shall be provided for a precision instrument 
approach landing system (ILS) at Lee Gilmer Memorial Airport, 
Gainesville, Georgia.
    Sec. 545. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used for converting to contractor performance an activity or function 
of an executive agency that, on or after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, is performed by executive agency employees unless the 
conversion is based on the results of a public-private competition 
process that requires a determination regarding whether, overall 
performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers for 
performance of the activity or function, the cost of performance of the 
activity or function by a contractor would be less costly to the 
executive agency by an amount that equals or exceeds the lesser of (1) 
10 percent of the cost of performing the activity with government 
personnel or, if a more efficient organization has been developed, 10 
percent of the most efficient organization's personnel-related costs 
for performance of that activity or function by Federal employees, or 
(2) $10,000,000.
    (b) With respect to the use of any funds appropriated by this Act 
for the Department of Defense--
            (1) subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 2461 of title 
        10, United States Code, do not apply with respect to the 
        performance of a commercial or industrial type activity or 
        function that--
                    (A) is on the procurement list established under 
                section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 
                47); or
                    (B) is planned to be converted to performance by--
                            (i) a qualified nonprofit agency for the 
                        blind or a qualified nonprofit agency for other 
                        severely handicapped (as such terms are defined 
                        in section 5 of such Act (41 U.S.C. 48b); or
                            (ii) a commercial business at least 51 
                        percent of which is owned by an Indian tribe 
                        (as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
                        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
                        U.S.C. 450b(e))) or a Native Hawaiian 
                        Organization (as defined in section 8(a)(15) of 
                        the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(15))).
            (2) Nothing in this section shall effect depot contracts or 
        contracts for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 
        and 2474 of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) The conversion of any activity or function of an 
        executive agency in accordance with this section shall be 
        credited toward any competitive or outsourcing goal, target or 
        measurement that may be established by statute, regulation or 
        policy and shall be deemed to be awarded under the authority of 
        and in compliance with section 303 of the Federal Property and 
        Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253) or section 
        2304 of title 10, United States Code, as the case may be, for 
        the competition or outsourcing of commercial activities.
    (c) In this section, the term ``executive agency'' has the meaning 
given such term in section 4 of the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403).
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to effect, amend, or 
repeal section 8014 of the Defense Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 
108-87).

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2004 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 604. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 605. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of the enactment of this Act 
who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of 
intention to become a citizen of the United States prior to such date 
and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 606. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 607. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13101 
        (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 611. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and 
such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of 
special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 
1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property 
owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may 
take the same actions as the Administrator of General Services may take 
under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto 
penal consequences under the authority and within the limits provided 
in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 613. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2004, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by the comparable section for previous 
        fiscal years until the normal effective date of the applicable 
        wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 
        2004, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable for the 
        applicable grade and step of the applicable wage schedule in 
        accordance with such section; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2004, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2004 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2004 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in the previous fiscal year under such 
                section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 2003, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 2003, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 2003.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 614. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. For the 
purposes of this section, the term ``office'' shall include the entire 
suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well as any other space 
used primarily by the individual or the use of which is directly 
controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 615. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for the current 
fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
interagency funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 616. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Department of Homeland Security, 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement 
        Administration of the Department of Justice, the Department of 
        Transportation, the Department of the Treasury, and the 
        Department of Energy performing intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 617. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for the 
current fiscal year shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless 
such department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will 
continue to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to 
ensure that all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and 
sexual harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation 
of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age 
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973.
    Sec. 618. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 619. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 620. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 
4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or 
agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and do 
not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing 
disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) 
of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, 
abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities 
Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures 
that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes 
which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national 
security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, 
United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act 
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, 
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order and 
listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are 
controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, 
a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United 
States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 621. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 622. None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 623. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing 
or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the 
Federal Government without the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 624. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 625. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 626. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Joint 
Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of JFMIP administrative costs, as 
determined by the JFMIP, but not to exceed a total of $800,000 
including the salary of the Executive Director and staff support.
    Sec. 627. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse the ``Policy and Citizen 
Services'' account, General Services Administration, with the approval 
of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made 
available for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, 
including rebates from charge card and other contracts. These funds 
shall be administered by the Administrator of General Services to 
support Government-wide financial, information technology, procurement, 
and other management innovations, initiatives, and activities, as 
approved by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
consultation with the appropriate interagency groups designated by the 
Director (including the Chief Financial Officers Council and the Joint 
Financial Management Improvement Program for financial management 
initiatives, the Chief Information Officers Council for information 
technology initiatives, and the Procurement Executives Council for 
procurement initiatives). The total funds transferred or reimbursed 
shall not exceed $12,250,000. Such transfers or reimbursements may only 
be made 15 days following notification of the Committees on 
Appropriations by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 628. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be used by the Office of Personnel Management or any other 
department or agency of the Federal Government to (a) operate an online 
employment information service for the Federal Government under any 
contract awarded under the request for quotations number SOLO30000003 
issued by the Office of Personnel Management unless the Office of 
Personnel Management complies with the recommendations of the 
Comptroller General in the General Accounting Office decision of April 
29, 2003, referred to as Symplicity Corporation, B-291902; or (b) 
prohibit any agency from using appropriated funds as they see fit to 
independently contract with private companies to provide online 
employment applications and processing services.
    Sec. 629. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 630. Nothwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for the current 
fiscal year by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
interagency funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and 
similar efforts to carry out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which 
benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities: Provided, 
That the Office of Management and Budget shall provide a report 
describing the budget of and resources connected with the National 
Science and Technology Council to the Committees on Appropriations, the 
House Committee on Science; and the Senate Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 631. Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall indicate the agency 
providing the funds, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number, 
as applicable, and the amount provided. This provision shall apply to 
direct payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State 
receiving Federal funds.
    Sec. 632. Subsection (f) of section 403 of Public Law 103-356 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2003'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2004''.
    Sec. 633. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of Personal 
Information on Use of Internet.--None of the funds made available in 
this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregate list, 
        derived from any means, that includes the collection of any 
        personally identifiable information relating to an individual's 
        access to or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the 
        agency; or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregate list, derived from any means, that 
        includes the collection of any personally identifiable 
        information relating to an individual's access to or use of any 
        nongovernmental Internet site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
        site and is necessarily incident to the rendition of the 
        Internet site services or to the protection of the rights or 
        property of the provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
        and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.
    Sec. 634. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF Health Plans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 635. The Congress of the United States recognizes the United 
States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) as the official anti-doping agency 
for Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic sport in the United States.
    Sec. 636. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for employees 
under the statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 2004 
under sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
an increase of 4.1 percent, and this adjustment shall apply to civilian 
employees in the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland 
Security and such adjustments shall be effective as of the first day of 
the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 713 of this Act, the adjustment in 
rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in 
fiscal year 2004 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be no less than the percentage in paragraph (a) as 
employees in the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
pursuant to the statutory pay systems under section 5303 and 5304 of 
title 5, United States Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations 
where there are no employees whose pay is increased pursuant to 
sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5 and prevailing rate employees 
described in section 5343(a)(5) of title 5 shall be considered to be 
located in the pay locality designated as ``Rest of US'' pursuant to 
section 5304 of title 5 for purposes of this paragraph.
    (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations, which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2004.
    Sec. 637. Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Inspector General of each applicable department or agency 
shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations a report detailing what 
policies and procedures are in place for each department or agency to 
give first priority to the location of new offices and other facilities 
in rural areas, as directed by the Rural Development Act of 1972.
    Sec. 638. None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act for fiscal year 2004 shall be expended for the purchase of a 
product or service offered by Federal Prison Industries, Inc. unless 
the agency making such purchase determines that such offered product or 
service provides the best value to the buying agency pursuant to 
governmentwide procurement regulations, issued pursuant to section 
25(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Act (41 U.S.C. 421(c)(1)) 
that impose procedures, standards, and limitations of section 2410n of 
title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 639. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel by Federal departments and agencies 
may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 640. Each Executive department and agency shall evaluate the 
creditworthiness of an individual before issuing the individual a 
government purchase charge card or government travel charge card. The 
department or agency may not issue a government purchase charge card or 
government travel charge card to an individual that either lacks a 
credit history or is found to have an unsatisfactory credit history as 
a result of this evaluation: Provided, That this restriction shall not 
preclude issuance of a restricted-use charge, debit, or stored value 
card made in accordance with agency procedures to (a) an individual 
with an unsatisfactory credit history where such card is used to pay 
travel expenses and the agency determines there is no suitable 
alternative payment mechanism available before issuing the card, or (b) 
an individual who lacks a credit history. Each Executive department and 
agency shall establish guidelines and procedures for disciplinary 
actions to be taken against agency personnel for improper, fraudulent, 
or abusive use of government charge cards, which shall include 
appropriate disciplinary actions for use of charge cards for purposes, 
and at establishments, that are inconsistent with the official business 
of the Department or agency or with applicable standards of conduct. 
Disciplinary actions may include, but are not limited to, the review of 
the security clearance of the individual involved and the modification 
or revocation of such security clearance in light of the review.
    Sec. 641. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, 
contract, or other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated 
in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 642. Not later than December 31 of each year, the head of each 
agency shall submit to Congress a report on the competitive sourcing 
activities performed during the previous fiscal year by Federal 
Government sources that are on the list required under the Federal 
Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-270; 31 U.S.C. 
501 note). The report shall include--
            (1) the number of full time equivalent Federal employees 
        studied for competitive sourcing;
            (2) the total agency cost required to carry out its 
        competitive sourcing program;
            (3) the costs attributable to paying outside consultants 
        and contractors to carry out the agency's competitive sourcing 
        program;
            (4) the costs attributable to paying agency personnel to 
        carry out its competitive sourcing program; and
            (5) an estimate of the savings attributed as a result of 
        the agency competitive sourcing program.
    Sec. 643. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to administer or enforce part 515 of title 31, Code of Federal 
Regulations (the Cuban Assets Control Regulations) with respect to any 
travel or travel-related transaction.
    (b) The limitation established in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
the administration of general or specific licenses for travel or 
travel-related transactions, shall not apply to section 515.204, 
515.206, 515.332, 515.536, 515.544, 515.547, 515.560(c)(3), 515.569, 
515.571, or 515.803 of such part 515, and shall not apply to 
transactions in relation to any business travel covered by section 
515.560(g) of such part 515.
    (c) This section shall take effect one day after date of enactment.
    Sec. 644. (a) Not later than December 31 of each year, the head of 
each executive agency shall submit to Congress (instead of the report 
required by section 642) a report on the competitive sourcing 
activities on the list required under the Federal Activities Inventory 
Reform Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-270; 31 U.S.C. 501 note) that were 
performed for such executive agency during the previous fiscal year by 
Federal Government sources. The report shall include--
            (1) the total number of competitions completed;
            (2) the total number of competitions announced, together 
        with a list of the activities covered by such competitions;
            (3) the total number (expressed as a full-time employee 
        equivalent number) of the Federal employees studied under 
        completed competitions;
            (4) the total number (expressed as a full-time employee 
        equivalent number) of the Federal employees that are being 
        studied under competitions announced but not completed;
            (5) the incremental cost directly attributable to 
        conducting the competitions identified under paragraphs (1) and 
        (2), including costs attributable to paying outside consultants 
        and contractors;
            (6) an estimate of the total anticipated savings, or a 
        quantifiable description of improvements in service or 
        performance, derived from completed competitions;
            (7) actual savings, or a quantifiable description of 
        improvements in service or performance, derived from the 
        implementation of competitions completed after May 29, 2003;
            (8) the total projected number (expressed as a full-time 
        employee equivalent number) of the Federal employees that are 
        to be covered by competitions scheduled to be announced in the 
        fiscal year covered by the next report required under this 
        section; and
            (9) a general description of how the competitive sourcing 
        decisionmaking processes of the executive agency are aligned 
        with the strategic workforce plan of that executive agency.
    (b) The head of an executive agency may not be required, under 
Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any other policy, 
directive, or regulation, to conduct a follow-on public-private 
competition to a prior public-private competition conducted under such 
circular within five years of the prior public-private competition if 
the activity or function covered by the prior public-private 
competition was performed by Federal Government employees as a result 
of the prior public-private competition.
    (c) Hereafter, the head of an executive agency may expend funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available for any purpose to the 
executive agency under this or any other Act to monitor (in the 
administration of responsibilities under Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 or any related policy, directive, or regulation) 
the performance of an activity or function of the executive agency that 
has previously been subjected to a public-private competition under 
such circular.
    (d) For the purposes of subchapter V of chapter 35 of title 31, 
United States Code--
            (1) the person designated to represent employees of the 
        Federal Government in a public-private competition regarding 
        the performance of an executive agency activity or function 
        under Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76--
                    (A) shall be treated as an interested party on 
                behalf of such employees; and
                    (B) may submit a protest with respect to such 
                public-private competition on behalf of such employees; 
                and
            (2) the Comptroller General shall dispose of such a protest 
        in accordance with the policies and procedures applicable to 
        protests described in section 3551(1) of such title under the 
        procurement protest system provided under such subchapter.
    (e) An activity or function of an executive agency that is 
converted to contractor performance under Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 may not be performed by the contractor at a 
location outside the United States except to the extent that such 
activity or function was previously been performed by Federal 
Government employees outside the United States.
    (f) The process that applies to the selection of architects and 
engineers for meeting the requirements of an executive agency for 
architectural and engineering services under chapter 11 of title 40, 
United States Code, shall apply to a public-private competition for the 
performance of architectural and engineering services for an executive 
agency.
    (g) In this section, the term ``executive agency'' has the meaning 
given such term in section 4 of the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403).
    Sec. 645. Motorist Information Concerning Pharmacy Services. (a) In 
General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall amend the Manual on Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices to include a provision requiring that 
information be provided to motorists to assist motorists in locating 
licensed 24-hour pharmacy services open to the public.
    (b) Logo Panel.--The provision under subsection (a) shall require 
placement of a logo panel that displays information disclosing the 
names or logos of pharmacies described in subsection (a) that are 
located within 3 miles of an interchange on the Federal-aid system (as 
defined in section 101 of title 23, United States Code).
    Sec. 646. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to remove any area within a locality 
pay area established under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, 
from coverage under that locality pay area.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to the Rest of U.S. locality pay 
area.
    Sec. 647. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, and section 610 of this Act, the head of each executive 
department and agency shall transfer to or reimburse the Federal 
Aviation Administration, with the approval of the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, funds made available by this or any 
other Act for the purposes described below, and shall submit budget 
requests for such purposes. These funds shall be administered by the 
Federal Aviation Administration as approved by the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate 
interagency groups designated by the Director to ensure the operation 
of the Midway Atoll Airfield by the Federal Aviation Administration 
pursuant to an operational agreement with the Department of the 
Interior. The total funds transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed 
$6,000,000 and shall not be available for activities other than the 
operation of the airfield. The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of such transfers 
or reimbursements within 15 days of this Act. Such transfers or 
reimbursements shall begin within 30 days of enactment of this Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation, Treasury, and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2004''.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 9, 2003.

            Attest:

                                                 JEFF TRANDAHL,

                                                                 Clerk.

            Passed the Senate October 23, 2003.

            Attest:

                                             EMILY J. REYNOLDS,

                                                             Secretary.