[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3043 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3043

                       One Hundred Tenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
            the fourth day of January, two thousand and seven


                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
               September 30, 2008, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Table of contents.
Sec. 2. Statement of appropriations.

 LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                          APPROPRIATIONS, 2008

Title I--Department of Labor
Title II--Department of Health and Human Services
Title III--Department of Education
Title IV--Related Agencies
Title V--General Provisions

SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2008.

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


                     Training and Employment Services

                         (including rescissions)

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 
(``WIA''), the Denali Commission Act of 1998, and the Women in 
Apprenticeship and Non-Traditional Occupations Act of 1992, including 
the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and other facilities, and the 
purchase of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
WIA; $3,618,940,000, plus reimbursements, is available. Of the amounts 
provided:
        (1) for grants to States for adult employment and training 
    activities, youth activities, and dislocated worker employment and 
    training activities, $2,994,510,000 as follows:
            (A) $864,199,000 for adult employment and training 
        activities, of which $152,199,000 shall be available for the 
        period July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009, and of which $712,000,000 
        shall be available for the period October 1, 2008 through June 
        30, 2009;
            (B) $940,500,000 for youth activities, which shall be 
        available for the period April 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009; 
        and
            (C) $1,189,811,000 for dislocated worker employment and 
        training activities, of which $341,811,000 shall be available 
        for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009, and of which 
        $848,000,000 shall be available for the period October 1, 2008 
        through June 30, 2009:
    Provided, That notwithstanding the transfer limitation under 
    section 133(b)(4) of the WIA, up to 30 percent of such funds may be 
    transferred by a local board if approved by the Governor;
        (2) for federally administered programs, $483,371,000 as 
    follows:
            (A) $282,092,000 for the dislocated workers assistance 
        national reserve, of which $6,300,000 shall be available on 
        October 1, 2007, of which $63,792,000 shall be available for 
        the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009, and of which 
        $212,000,000 shall be available for the period October 1, 2008 
        through June 30, 2009: Provided, That up to $125,000,000 may be 
        made available for Community-Based Job Training grants from 
        funds reserved under section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIA and shall 
        be used to carry out such grants under section 171(d) of such 
        Act, except that the 10 percent limitation otherwise applicable 
        to the amount of funds that may be used to carry out section 
        171(d) shall not be applicable to funds used for Community-
        Based Job Training grants: Provided further, That funds 
        provided to carry out section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIA may be 
        used to provide assistance to a State for State-wide or local 
        use in order to address cases where there have been worker 
        dislocations across multiple sectors or across multiple local 
        areas and such workers remain dislocated; coordinate the State 
        workforce development plan with emerging economic development 
        needs; and train such eligible dislocated workers: Provided 
        further, That funds provided to carry out section 171(d) of the 
        WIA may be used for demonstration projects that provide 
        assistance to new entrants in the workforce and incumbent 
        workers: Provided further, That $2,600,000 shall be for a 
        noncompetitive grant to the National Center on Education and 
        the Economy, which shall be awarded not later than 30 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
        $1,500,000 shall be for a non-competitive grant to the AFL-CIO 
        Working for America Institute, which shall be awarded not later 
        than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided 
        further, That $2,200,000 shall be for a non-competitive grant 
        to the AFL-CIO Appalachian Council, Incorporated, for Job Corps 
        career transition services, which shall be awarded not later 
        than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act;
            (B) $55,039,000 for Native American programs, which shall 
        be available for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009;
            (C) $82,740,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
        programs under section 167 of the WIA, including $77,265,000 
        for formula grants (of which not less that 70 percent shall be 
        for employment and training services), $4,975,000 for migrant 
        and seasonal housing (of which not less than 70 percent shall 
        be for permanent housing), and $500,000 for other discretionary 
        purposes, which shall be available for the period July 1, 2008 
        through June 30, 2009: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law or related regulation, the Department 
        shall take no action limiting the number or proportion of 
        eligible participants receiving related assistance services or 
        discouraging grantees from providing such services;
            (D) $1,000,000 for carrying out the Women in Apprenticeship 
        and Nontraditional Occupations Act, which shall be available 
        for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009; and
            (E) $62,500,000 for YouthBuild activities as described in 
        section 173A of the WIA, which shall be available for the 
        period April 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009;
        (3) for national activities, $141,059,000, which shall be 
    available for the period July 1, 2008 through July 30, 2009 as 
    follows:
            (A) $50,569,000 for Pilots, Demonstrations, and Research, 
        of which $5,000,000 shall be for grants to address the 
        employment and training needs of young parents (notwithstanding 
        the requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 171(c)(4)(D) of the 
        WIA): Provided, That funding provided to carry out projects 
        under section 171 of the WIA that are identified in the 
        statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying 
        this Act, shall not be subject to the requirements of sections 
        171(b)(2)(B) and 171(c)(4)(D) of the WIA, the joint funding 
        requirements of sections 171(b)(2)(A) and 171(c)(4)(A) of the 
        WIA, or any time limit requirements of sections 171(b)(2)(C) 
        and 171(c)(4)(B) of the WIA;
            (B) $78,694,000 for ex-offender activities, under the 
        authority of section 171 of the Act, notwithstanding the 
        requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) or 171(c)(4)(D), of which 
        not less than $59,000,000 shall be for youthful offender 
        activities: Provided, That $50,000,000 shall be available from 
        program year 2007 and program year 2008 funds for competitive 
        grants to local educational agencies or community-based 
        organizations to develop and implement mentoring strategies 
        that integrate educational and employment interventions 
        designed to prevent youth violence in schools identified as 
        persistently dangerous under section 9532 of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act;
            (C) $4,921,000 for Evaluation under section 172 of the WIA; 
        and
            (D) $6,875,000 for the Denali Commission, which shall be 
        available for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 107-
116 to carry out the activities of the National Skills Standards Board, 
$44,000 are rescinded.
    Of the unexpended balances remaining from funds appropriated to the 
Department of Labor under this heading for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 
to carry out the Youth, Adult and Dislocated Worker formula programs 
under the Workforce Investment Act, $245,000,000 are rescinded: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may, upon the request of a State, 
apply any portion of the State's share of this rescission to funds 
otherwise available to the State for such programs during program year 
2007: Provided further, That notwithstanding any provision of such Act, 
the Secretary may waive such requirements as may be necessary to carry 
out the instructions relating to this rescission in the statement of 
the managers on the conference report accompanying this Act.


             community service employment for older americans

    To carry out title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965, 
$530,900,000, which shall be available for the period July 1, 2008 
through June 30, 2009.


               federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during fiscal year 2008 of trade adjustment benefit 
payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and section 246 of that Act; and for 
training, allowances for job search and relocation, and related State 
administrative expenses under Part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, $888,700,000, together with such 
amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15, 
2008.


      State Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service Operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $90,517,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,337,506,000 which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the 
Trust Fund''), of which:
        (1) $2,510,723,000 from the Trust Fund is for grants to States 
    for the administration of State unemployment insurance laws as 
    authorized under title III of the Social Security Act (including 
    $10,000,000 to conduct in-person reemployment and eligibility 
    assessments in one-stop career centers of claimants of unemployment 
    insurance), the administration of unemployment insurance for 
    Federal employees and for ex-service members as authorized under 
    sections 8501-8523 of title 5, United States Code, and the 
    administration of trade readjustment allowances and alternative 
    trade adjustment assistance under the Trade Act of 1974, and shall 
    be available for obligation by the States through December 31, 
    2008, except that funds used for automation acquisitions shall be 
    available for obligation by the States through September 30, 2010, 
    and funds used for unemployment insurance workloads experienced by 
    the States through September 30, 2008 shall be available for 
    Federal obligation through December 31, 2008;
        (2) $10,500,000 from the Trust Fund is for national activities 
    necessary to support the administration of the Federal-State 
    unemployment insurance system;
        (3) $693,000,000 from the Trust Fund, together with $22,883,000 
    from the General Fund of the Treasury, is for grants to States in 
    accordance with section 6 of the Wagner-Peyser Act, and shall be 
    available for Federal obligation for the period July 1, 2008 
    through June 30, 2009;
        (4) $32,766,000 from the Trust Fund is for national activities 
    of the Employment Service, including administration of the work 
    opportunity tax credit under section 51 of the Internal Revenue 
    Code of 1986, the administration of activities, including foreign 
    labor certifications, under the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
    and the provision of technical assistance and staff training under 
    the Wagner-Peyser Act, including not to exceed $1,228,000 that may 
    be used for amortization payments to States which had independent 
    retirement plans in their State employment service agencies prior 
    to 1980;
        (5) $52,985,000 from the General Fund is to provide workforce 
    information, national electronic tools, and one-stop system 
    building under the Wagner-Peyser Act and shall be available for 
    Federal obligation for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 
    2009; and
        (6) $14,649,000 from the General Fund is to provide for work 
    incentive grants to the States and shall be available for the 
    period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009:
Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2008 is projected by the 
Department of Labor to exceed 2,786,000, an additional $28,600,000 from 
the Trust Fund shall be available for obligation for every 100,000 
increase in the AWIU level (including a pro rata amount for any 
increment less than 100,000) to carry out title III of the Social 
Security Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act 
that are allotted to a State to carry out activities under title III of 
the Social Security Act may be used by such State to assist other 
States in carrying out activities under such title III if the other 
States include areas that have suffered a major disaster declared by 
the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of Labor 
may use funds appropriated for grants to States under title III of the 
Social Security Act to make payments on behalf of States for the use of 
the National Directory of New Hires under section 453(j)(8) of such 
Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act which are 
used to establish a national one-stop career center system, or which 
are used to support the national activities of the Federal-State 
unemployment insurance or immigration programs, may be obligated in 
contracts, grants, or agreements with non-State entities: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this Act for activities 
authorized under title III of the Social Security Act and the Wagner-
Peyser Act may be used by States to fund integrated Unemployment 
Insurance and Employment Service automation efforts, notwithstanding 
cost allocation principles prescribed under the Office of Management 
and Budget Circular A-87.
    In addition, $40,000,000 from the Employment Security 
Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust Fund shall be 
available to conduct in-person reemployment and eligibility assessments 
in one-stop career centers of claimants of unemployment insurance: 
Provided, That not later than 180 days following the end of the current 
fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit an interim report to the 
Congress that includes available information on expenditures, number of 
individuals assessed, and outcomes from the assessments: Provided 
further, That not later than 18 months following the end of the fiscal 
year, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the Congress a final 
report containing comprehensive information on the estimated savings 
that result from the assessments of claimants and identification of 
best practices.


         advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, and to the 
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 9501(c)(1) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; and for nonrepayable advances to the 
Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by section 8509 of title 5, 
United States Code, and to the ``Federal unemployment benefits and 
allowances'' account, to remain available until September 30, 2009, 
$437,000,000.
    In addition, for making repayable advances to the Black Lung 
Disability Trust Fund in the current fiscal year after September 15, 
2008, for costs incurred by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund in the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.


                          Program Administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$88,451,000, together with not to exceed $88,211,000, which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
Administration, $142,925,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation


                pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is authorized to make such 
expenditures, including financial assistance authorized by subtitle E 
of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act (31 
U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the program, 
including associated administrative expenses, through September 30, 
2008, for such Corporation: Provided, That none of the funds available 
to the Corporation for fiscal year 2008 shall be available for 
obligations for administrative expenses in excess of $411,151,000: 
Provided further, That to the extent that the number of new plan 
participants in plans terminated by the Corporation exceeds 100,000 in 
fiscal year 2008, an amount not to exceed an additional $9,200,000 
shall be available for obligation for administrative expenses for every 
20,000 additional terminated participants: Provided further, That an 
additional $50,000 shall be made available for obligation for 
investment management fees for every $25,000,000 in assets received by 
the Corporation as a result of new plan terminations, after approval by 
the Office of Management and Budget and notification of the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                  Employment Standards Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

                          (including rescission)

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards Administration, 
including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their 
employees for inspection services rendered, $435,397,000, together with 
$2,111,000 which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance 
with sections 39(c), 44(d), and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized to establish and, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3302, collect 
and deposit in the Treasury fees for processing applications and 
issuing certificates under sections 11(d) and 14 of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 and for processing applications and issuing 
registrations under title I of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural 
Worker Protection Act.
    Of the unobligated funds collected pursuant to section 286(v) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, $102,000,000 are rescinded.

                            special benefits


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code; 
continuation of benefits as provided for under the heading ``Civilian 
War Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; 
the Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; 
sections 4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948; and 50 percent of 
the additional compensation and benefits required by section 10(h) of 
the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, $203,000,000, 
together with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the 
subsequent year appropriation for the payment of compensation and other 
benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 of the current year: 
Provided, That amounts appropriated may be used under section 8104 of 
title 5, United States Code, by the Secretary of Labor to reimburse an 
employer, who is not the employer at the time of injury, for portions 
of the salary of a reemployed, disabled beneficiary: Provided further, 
That balances of reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 2007, 
shall remain available until expended for the payment of compensation, 
benefits, and expenses: Provided further, That in addition there shall 
be transferred to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from 
any other corporation or instrumentality required under section 8147(c) 
of title 5, United States Code, to pay an amount for its fair share of 
the cost of administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be 
the cost of administration for employees of such fair share entities 
through September 30, 2008: Provided further, That of those funds 
transferred to this account from the fair share entities to pay the 
cost of administration of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, 
$52,280,000 shall be made available to the Secretary as follows:
        (1) For enhancement and maintenance of automated data 
    processing systems and telecommunications systems, $21,855,000.
        (2) For automated workload processing operations, including 
    document imaging, centralized mail intake and medical bill 
    processing, $16,109,000.
        (3) For periodic roll management and medical review, 
    $14,316,000.
        (4) The remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
    miscellaneous receipts:
Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any person filing 
a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, 
United States Code, or the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation 
Act, provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying 
information (including Social Security account number) as such 
regulations may prescribe.


                special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, $208,221,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, for costs incurred 
in the current fiscal year, such amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2009, $62,000,000, to remain available until expended.


     Administrative Expenses, Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
                           Compensation Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $104,745,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized to transfer to any executive agency with authority under the 
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, 
including within the Department of Labor, such sums as may be necessary 
in fiscal year 2008 to carry out those authorities: Provided further, 
That the Secretary may require that any person filing a claim for 
benefits under the Act provide as part of such claim, such identifying 
information (including Social Security account number) as may be 
prescribed: Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, in addition to other sums transferred by the 
Secretary to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(``NIOSH'') for the administration of the Energy Employees Occupational 
Illness Compensation Program (``EEOICP''), the Secretary shall transfer 
$4,500,000 to NIOSH from the funds appropriated to the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Fund, for use by or in support of the 
Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health (``the Board'') to carry 
out its statutory responsibilities under the EEOICP, including 
obtaining audits, technical assistance and other support from the 
Board's audit contractor with regard to radiation dose estimation and 
reconstruction efforts, site profiles, procedures, and review of 
Special Exposure Cohort petitions and evaluation reports.


                     Black Lung Disability Trust Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    In fiscal year 2008 and thereafter, such sums as may be necessary 
from the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended, for payment of all benefits authorized by section 9501(d)(1), 
(2), (4), and (7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; and interest on 
advances, as authorized by section 9501(c)(2) of that Act. In addition, 
the following amounts shall be available from the Fund for fiscal year 
2008 for expenses of operation and administration of the Black Lung 
Benefits program, as authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not to exceed 
$32,761,000 for transfer to the Employment Standards Administration 
``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed $24,785,000 for transfer to 
Departmental Management, ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed 
$335,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Office of Inspector 
General''; and not to exceed $356,000 for payments into miscellaneous 
receipts for the expenses of the Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $500,568,000, including not to exceed $91,093,000 which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (the ``Act''), 
which grants shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State 
occupational safety and health programs required to be incurred under 
plans approved by the Secretary of Labor under section 18 of the Act; 
and, in addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration may retain up to $750,000 per fiscal 
year of training institute course tuition fees, otherwise authorized by 
law to be collected, and may utilize such sums for occupational safety 
and health training and education grants: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary is authorized, during the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, to collect and retain fees for 
services provided to Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and 
may utilize such sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 
9a, to administer national and international laboratory recognition 
programs that ensure the safety of equipment and products used by 
workers in the workplace: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to 
prescribe, issue, administer, or enforce any standard, rule, 
regulation, or order under the Act which is applicable to any person 
who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer employees: Provided 
further, That no funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be 
obligated or expended to administer or enforce any standard, rule, 
regulation, or order under the Act with respect to any employer of 10 
or fewer employees who is included within a category having a Days 
Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART) occupational injury and illness 
rate, at the most precise industrial classification code for which such 
data are published, less than the national average rate as such rates 
are most recently published by the Secretary, acting through the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics, in accordance with section 24 of the Act, except--
        (1) to provide, as authorized by the Act, consultation, 
    technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
    conduct surveys and studies;
        (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response to an 
    employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations found during 
    such inspection, and to assess a penalty for violations which are 
    not corrected within a reasonable abatement period and for any 
    willful violations found;
        (3) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect to 
    imminent dangers;
        (4) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect to 
    health hazards;
        (5) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect to a 
    report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or more 
    employees or which results in hospitalization of two or more 
    employees, and to take any action pursuant to such investigation 
    authorized by the Act; and
        (6) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect to 
    complaints of discrimination against employees for exercising 
    rights under the Act:
Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to any 
person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer employees: Provided 
further, That $10,116,000 shall be available for Susan Harwood training 
grants, of which $3,200,000 shall be used for the Institutional 
Competency Building training grants which commenced in September 2000, 
for program activities for the period of October 1, 2007 to September 
30, 2008, provided that a grantee has demonstrated satisfactory 
performance: Provided further, That such grants shall be awarded not 
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate with 
timetables for the development and issuance of occupational safety and 
health standards on beryllium, silica, cranes and derricks, confined 
space entry in construction, and hazard communication global 
harmonization; such timetables shall include actual or estimated dates 
for: the publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking, the 
commencement and completion of a Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act review (if required), the completion of any peer review 
(if required), the submission of the draft proposed rule to the Office 
of Management and Budget for review under Executive Order No. 12866 (if 
required), the publication of a proposed rule, the conduct of public 
hearings, the submission of a draft final rule to the Office and 
Management and Budget for review under Executive Order No. 12866 (if 
required), and the issuance of a final rule; and such report shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate within 90 days of the enactment of this 
Act, with updates provided every 90 days thereafter that shall include 
an explanation of the reasons for any delays in meeting the projected 
timetables for action.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $339,893,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, including up to 
$2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery activities, $2,200,000 for an 
award to the United Mine Workers of America, for classroom and 
simulated rescue training for mine rescue teams, and $1,215,000 for an 
award to the Wheeling Jesuit University, for the National Technology 
Transfer Center for a coal slurry impoundment project; in addition, not 
to exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health and 
Safety Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of training 
materials, otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to be available 
for mine safety and health education and training activities, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302; and, in addition, the Mine Safety and 
Health Administration may retain up to $1,000,000 from fees collected 
for the approval and certification of equipment, materials, and 
explosives for use in mines, and may utilize such sums for such 
activities; the Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept lands, 
buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public and private 
sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, 
Federal, State, or private; the Mine Safety and Health Administration 
is authorized to promote health and safety education and training in 
the mining community through cooperative programs with States, 
industry, and safety associations; the Secretary is authorized to 
recognize the Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association as a principal safety 
association and, notwithstanding any other provision of law, may 
provide funds and, with or without reimbursement, personnel, including 
service of Mine Safety and Health Administration officials as officers 
in local chapters or in the national organization; and any funds 
available to the Department may be used, with the approval of the 
Secretary, to provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival 
operations in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $488,804,000, 
together with not to exceed $78,000,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund, of which $5,000,000 may be used to fund the mass layoff 
statistics program under section 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act: Provided, 
That the Current Employment Survey shall maintain the content of the 
survey issued prior to June 2005 with respect to the collection of data 
for the women worker series.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Disability Employment 
Policy to provide leadership, develop policy and initiatives, and award 
grants furthering the objective of eliminating barriers to the training 
and employment of people with disabilities, $27,712,000.

                        Departmental Management


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three sedans, and including the management or operation, 
through contracts, grants or other arrangements of Departmental 
activities conducted by or through the Bureau of International Labor 
Affairs, including bilateral and multilateral technical assistance and 
other international labor activities, $304,856,000, of which 
$82,516,000 is for the Bureau of International Labor Affairs (including 
$5,000,000 to implement model programs to address worker rights issues 
through technical assistance in countries with which the United States 
has trade preference programs), and of which $20,000,000 is for the 
acquisition of Departmental information technology, architecture, 
infrastructure, equipment, software and related needs, which will be 
allocated by the Department's Chief Information Officer in accordance 
with the Department's capital investment management process to assure a 
sound investment strategy; together with not to exceed $318,000, which 
may be expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in 
the Unemployment Trust Fund.


                           Office of Job Corps

    To carry out subtitle C of title I of the Workforce Investment Act 
of 1998, including Federal administrative expenses, the purchase and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, alteration and 
repairs of buildings and other facilities, and the purchase of real 
property for training centers as authorized by the Workforce Investment 
Act; $1,650,516,000, plus reimbursements, as follows:
        (1) $1,507,684,000 for Job Corps Operations, of which 
    $916,684,000 is available for obligation for the period July 1, 
    2008 through June 30, 2009 and of which $591,000,000 is available 
    for obligation for the period October 1, 2008 through June 30, 
    2009;
        (2) $113,960,000 for construction, rehabilitation and 
    acquisition of Job Corps Centers, of which $13,960,000 is available 
    for the period July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2011 and $100,000,000 
    is available for the period October 1, 2008 through June 30, 2011; 
    and
        (3) $28,872,000 for necessary expenses of the Office of Job 
    Corps is available for obligation for the period October 1, 2007 
    through September 30, 2008:
Provided, That the Office of Job Corps shall have contracting 
authority: Provided further, That no funds from any other appropriation 
shall be used to provide meal services at or for Job Corps centers: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available in this Act 
shall be used to reduce Job Corps total student training slots below 
44,791 in program year 2008.


                     veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $197,143,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of sections 4100-4113, 4211-4215, and 4321-4327 of 
title 38, United States Code, and Public Law 103-353, and which shall 
be available for obligation by the States through December 31, 2008, of 
which $1,967,000 is for the National Veterans' Employment and Training 
Services Institute. To carry out the Homeless Veterans Reintegration 
Programs under section 5(a)(1) of the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive 
Assistance Act of 2001 and the Veterans Workforce Investment Programs 
under section 168 of the Workforce Investment Act, $31,055,000, of 
which $7,435,000 shall be available for obligation for the period July 
1, 2008, through June 30, 2009.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$72,929,000, together with not to exceed $5,729,000, which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the salary of an individual, either as 
direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate in excess 
of Executive Level I.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between a program, 
project, or activity, but no such program, project, or activity shall 
be increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, 
That the transfer authority granted by this section shall be available 
only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used to create any new 
program or to fund any project or activity for which no funds are 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 103. In accordance with Executive Order No. 13126, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
shall be obligated or expended for the procurement of goods mined, 
produced, manufactured, or harvested or services rendered, whole or in 
part, by forced or indentured child labor in industries and host 
countries already identified by the United States Department of Labor 
prior to enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 104. After September 30, 2007, the Secretary of Labor shall 
issue a monthly transit subsidy of not less than the full amount (of 
not less than $110) that each of its employees of the National Capital 
Region is eligible to receive.
    Sec. 105. None of the funds appropriated in this title for grants 
under section 171 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 may be 
obligated prior to the preparation and submission of a report by the 
Secretary of Labor to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the planned uses of such 
funds.
    Sec. 106. There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may 
be necessary to the Denali Commission through the Department of Labor 
to conduct job training of the local workforce where Denali Commission 
projects will be constructed.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Labor for grants under section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness 
and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 may be used for any purpose other 
than training in the occupations and industries for which employers are 
using H-1B visas to hire foreign workers, and the related activities 
necessary to support such training: Provided, That the preceding 
limitation shall not apply to grants awarded under section 107 of this 
title and to multi-year grants awarded in response to competitive 
solicitations issued prior to April 15, 2007.
    Sec. 108. None of the funds available in this Act or available to 
the Secretary of Labor from other sources for Community-Based Job 
Training grants and grants authorized under section 414(c) of the 
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 shall be 
obligated for a grant awarded on a non-competitive basis.
    Sec. 109. The Secretary of Labor shall take no action to amend, 
through regulatory or administration action, the definition established 
in 20 CFR 667.220 for functions and activities under title I of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998, or to modify, through regulatory or 
administrative action, the procedure for redesignation of local areas 
as specified in subtitle B of title I of that Act (including applying 
the standards specified in section 116(a)(3)(B) of that Act, but 
notwithstanding the time limits specified in section 116(a)(3)(B) of 
that Act), until such time as legislation reauthorizing the Act is 
enacted. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall permit or require the 
Secretary of Labor to withdraw approval for such redesignation from a 
State that received the approval not later than October 12, 2005, or to 
revise action taken or modify the redesignation procedure being used by 
the Secretary in order to complete such redesignation for a State that 
initiated the process of such redesignation by submitting any request 
for such redesignation not later than October 26, 2005.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
shall be available to finalize or implement any proposed regulation 
under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, 
or the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 until such time 
as legislation reauthorizing the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 is enacted.
    Sec. 111. (a) On or before November 30, 2007, the Secretary of 
Labor shall, pursuant to section 6 of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Act of 1970, promulgate a final occupational safety and health 
standard concerning employer payment for personal protective equipment. 
The final standard shall provide no less protection to employees and 
shall have no further exceptions from the employer payment requirement 
than the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on March 31, 
1999 (64 Fed. Reg. 15402).
    (b) In the event that such standard is not promulgated by the date 
required, the proposed standard on employer payment for personal 
protective equipment published in the Federal Register on March 31, 
1999 (64 Fed. Reg. 15402) shall become effective as if such standard 
had been promulgated as a final standard by the Secretary of Labor.
    Sec. 112. None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
carry out a public-private competition or direct conversion under 
Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any successor 
administrative regulation, directive or policy until 60 days after the 
Government Accountability Office provides a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on the 
use of competitive sourcing at the Department of Labor.
    Sec. 113. (a) Not later than June 20, 2008, the Secretary of Labor 
shall propose regulations pursuant to section 303(y) of the Federal 
Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, consistent with the recommendations 
of the Technical Study Panel established pursuant to section 11 of the 
Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act (Public Law 
109-236), to require that in any coal mine, regardless of the date on 
which it was opened, belt haulage entries not be used to ventilate 
active working places without prior approval from the Assistant 
Secretary. Further, a mine ventilation plan incorporating the use of 
air coursed through belt haulage entries to ventilate active working 
places shall not be approved until the Assistant Secretary has reviewed 
the elements of the plan related to the use of belt air and determined 
that the plan at all times affords at least the same measure of 
protection where belt haulage entries are not used to ventilate working 
places. The Secretary shall finalize the regulations not later than 
December 31, 2008.
    (b) Not later than June 15, 2008, the Secretary of Labor shall 
propose regulations pursuant to section 315 of the Federal Coal Mine 
Health and Safety Act of 1969, consistent with the recommendations of 
the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health pursuant to 
section 13 of the MINER Act (Public Law 109-236), requiring rescue 
chambers, or facilities that afford at least the same measure of 
protection, in underground coal mines. The Secretary shall finalize the 
regulations not later than December 31, 2008.
    Sec. 114. None of the funds appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' shall be used by a 
recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses 
of an individual, either as direct costs or indirect costs, at a rate 
in excess of Executive Level II. This limitation shall not apply to 
vendors providing goods and services as defined in OMB Circular A-133. 
Where States are recipients of such funds, States may establish a lower 
limit for salaries and bonuses of those receiving salaries and bonuses 
from subrecipients of such funds, taking into account factors including 
the relative cost-of-living in the State, the compensation levels for 
comparable State or local government employees, and the size of the 
organizations that administer Federal programs involved including 
Employment and Training Administration programs.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2008''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration


                      Health Resources and Services

    For carrying out titles II, III, IV, VII, VIII, X, XII, XIX, and 
XXVI of the Public Health Service Act, section 427(a) of the Federal 
Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, title V and sections 1128E, and 711, 
and 1820 of the Social Security Act, the Health Care Quality 
Improvement Act of 1986, the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, 
the Cardiac Arrest Survival Act of 2000, and section 712 of the 
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, $7,235,468,000, of which 
$317,684,000 shall be available for construction and renovation 
(including equipment) of health care and other facilities and other 
health-related activities as specified in the statement of the managers 
on the conference report accompanying this Act, and of which 
$38,538,000 from general revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of 
the Social Security Act, shall be available for carrying out the 
Medicare rural hospital flexibility grants program under such section: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this heading, $160,000 
shall be available until expended for facilities renovations at the 
Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease Center: Provided further, That 
$40,000,000 of the funding provided for community health centers shall 
be for base grant adjustments for existing health centers: Provided 
further, That in addition to fees authorized by section 427(b) of the 
Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, fees shall be collected 
for the full disclosure of information under the Act sufficient to 
recover the full costs of operating the National Practitioner Data 
Bank, and shall remain available until expended to carry out that Act: 
Provided further, That fees collected for the full disclosure of 
information under the ``Health Care Fraud and Abuse Data Collection 
Program'', authorized by section 1128E(d)(2) of the Social Security 
Act, shall be sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the 
program, and shall remain available until expended to carry out that 
Act: Provided further, That no more than $40,000 is available until 
expended for carrying out the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 233(o) including 
associated administrative expenses and relevant evaluations: Provided 
further, That no more than $44,055,000 is available until expended for 
carrying out the provisions of Public Law 104-73 and for expenses 
incurred by the Department of Health and Human Services pertaining to 
administrative claims made under such law: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, $310,910,000 shall be for 
the program under title X of the Public Health Service Act to provide 
for voluntary family planning projects: Provided further, That amounts 
provided to said projects under such title shall not be expended for 
abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be nondirective, and 
that such amounts shall not be expended for any activity (including the 
publication or distribution of literature) that in any way tends to 
promote public support or opposition to any legislative proposal or 
candidate for public office: Provided further, That of the funds 
available under this heading, $1,868,809,000 shall remain available to 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services through September 30, 2010, 
for parts A and B of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act: 
Provided further, That within the amounts provided for part A of title 
XXVI of the Public Health Service Act, $9,377,000 is available to the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services through September 30, 2010, and 
shall be made available to qualifying jurisdictions within 45 days of 
enactment, for increasing supplemental grants for fiscal year 2008 to 
metropolitan areas that received grant funding in fiscal year 2007 
under subpart I of part A of title XXVI of the Public Health Service 
Act to ensure that an area's total funding under subpart I of part A 
for fiscal year 2007, together with the amount of this additional 
funding, is not less than 91.6 percent of the amount of such area's 
total funding under part A for fiscal year 2006, and to transitional 
areas that received grant funding in fiscal year 2007 under subpart II 
of part A of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act to ensure that 
an area's total funding under subpart II of part A for fiscal year 
2007, together with the amount of this additional funding, is not less 
than 86.6 percent of the amount of such area's total funding under part 
A for fiscal year 2006: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
2603(c)(1) of the Public Health Service Act, the additional funding to 
areas under the immediately preceding proviso, which may be used for 
costs incurred during fiscal year 2007, shall be available to the area 
for obligation from the date of the award through the end of the grant 
year for the award: Provided further, That $822,570,000 shall be for 
State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs authorized by section 2616 of the 
Public Health Service Act: Provided further, That in addition to 
amounts provided herein, $25,000,000 shall be available from amounts 
available under section 241 of the Public Health Service Act to carry 
out parts A, B, C, and D of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act 
to fund section 2691 Special Projects of National Significance: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 
502(b)(1) of the Social Security Act, not to exceed $103,666,000 is 
available for carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act and $10,586,000 
is available for projects described in paragraphs (A) through (F) of 
section 501(a)(3) of such Act: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $39,283,000 shall be provided to the Denali Commission as a 
direct lump payment pursuant to Public Law 106-113: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided, $25,000,000 shall be provided for the Delta 
Health Initiative as authorized in section 219 of this Act and 
associated administrative expenses: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 747(e)(2) of the PHS Act, not less than 
$5,000,000 shall be for general dentistry programs, not less than 
$5,000,000 shall be for pediatric dentistry programs and not less than 
$24,614,000 shall be for family medicine programs: Provided further, 
That of the funds available under this heading, $12,000,000 shall be 
provided for the National Cord Blood Inventory pursuant to the Stem 
Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005.


            Health Education Assistance Loans Program Account

    Such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
program, as authorized by title VII of the Public Health Service Act. 
For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, 
including section 709 of the Public Health Service Act, $2,906,000.


              Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust Fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund, such sums as may be necessary for claims associated with vaccine-
related injury or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $6,000,000 shall 
be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


                 Disease Control, Research, and Training

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, and XXVI 
of the Public Health Service Act, sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 
203, 301, 501, and 514 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 
1977, section 13 of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act 
of 2006, sections 20, 21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act of 1970, title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, section 
501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, and for expenses 
necessary to support activities related to countering potential 
biological, disease, nuclear, radiological, and chemical threats to 
civilian populations; including purchase and insurance of official 
motor vehicles in foreign countries; and purchase, hire, maintenance, 
and operation of aircraft, $6,288,289,000, of which $147,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for equipment, construction and 
renovation of facilities; of which $568,803,000 shall remain available 
until expended for the Strategic National Stockpile; of which 
$52,500,000 shall be available until expended to provide screening and 
treatment for first response emergency services personnel, residents, 
students, and others related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist 
attacks on the World Trade Center; and of which $121,541,000 for 
international HIV/AIDS shall remain available until September 30, 2009. 
In addition, such sums as may be derived from authorized user fees, 
which shall be credited to this account: Provided, That in addition to 
amounts provided herein, the following amounts shall be available from 
amounts available under section 241 of the Public Health Service Act: 
(1) $12,794,000 to carry out the National Immunization Surveys; (2) 
$116,550,000 to carry out the National Center for Health Statistics 
surveys; (3) $24,751,000 to carry out information systems standards 
development and architecture and applications-based research used at 
local public health levels; (4) $44,523,000 for Health Marketing; (5) 
$31,000,000 to carry out Public Health Research; and (6) $97,404,000 to 
carry out research activities within the National Occupational Research 
Agenda: Provided further, That none of the funds made available for 
injury prevention and control at the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention may be used, in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun 
control: Provided further, That up to $31,800,000 shall be made 
available until expended for Individual Learning Accounts for full-time 
equivalent employees of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: 
Provided further, That the Director may redirect the total amount made 
available under authority of Public Law 101-502, section 3, dated 
November 3, 1990, to activities the Director may so designate: Provided 
further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are to be notified promptly of any such 
transfer: Provided further, That not to exceed $19,414,000 may be 
available for making grants under section 1509 of the Public Health 
Service Act to not less than 15 States, tribes, or tribal 
organizations: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a single contract or related contracts for 
development and construction of facilities may be employed which 
collectively include the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
That the solicitation and contract shall contain the clause 
``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232-18: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated, $10,000 is for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Provided further, That 
employees of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the 
Public Health Service, both civilian and Commissioned Officers, 
detailed to States, municipalities, or other organizations under 
authority of section 214 of the Public Health Service Act, or in 
overseas assignments, shall be treated as non-Federal employees for 
reporting purposes only and shall not be included within any personnel 
ceiling applicable to the Agency, Service, or the Department of Health 
and Human Services during the period of detail or assignment: Provided 
further, That out of funds made available under this heading for 
domestic HIV/AIDS testing, up to $30,000,000 shall be for States 
eligible under section 2625 of the Public Health Service Act as of 
December 31, 2007, and shall be distributed by March 31, 2008, based on 
standard criteria relating to a State's epidemiological profile, and of 
which not more than $1,000,000 may be made available to any one State, 
and any amounts that have not been obligated by March 31, 2008 shall be 
used to make grants authorized by other provisions of the Public Health 
Service Act to States and local public health departments for HIV 
prevention activities.

                     National Institutes of Health


                        National Cancer Institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cancer, $4,925,740,000, of which up to 
$8,000,000 may be used for facilities repairs and improvements at the 
NCI-Frederick Federally Funded Research and Development Center in 
Frederick, Maryland.


                National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, 
and blood and blood products, $3,001,691,000.


          National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to dental disease, $399,867,000.


     National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, 
$1,753,037,000.


         National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
$1,578,210,000.


          National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
$4,682,585,000: Provided, That $300,000,000 may be made available to 
International Assistance Programs ``Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, 
Malaria, and Tuberculosis'', to remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That such sums obligated in fiscal years 2003 through 
2007 for extramural facilities construction projects are to remain 
available until expended for disbursement, with prior notification of 
such projects to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.


              National Institute of General Medical Sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, $1,984,879,000.


         National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to child health and human development, 
$1,286,379,000.


                          National Eye Institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
$684,126,000.


           National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences

    For carrying out sections 301 and 311 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health sciences, 
$658,258,000.


                       National Institute on Aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to aging, $1,076,389,000.


  National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin 
diseases, $521,459,000.


     National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
$403,958,000.


                  National Institute of Nursing Research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to nursing research, $140,900,000.


            National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $447,245,000.


                     National Institute on Drug Abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $1,025,839,000.


                   National Institute of Mental Health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to mental health, $1,440,557,000.


                 National Human Genome Research Institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to human genome research, $498,748,000.


       National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to biomedical imaging and bioengineering 
research, $305,884,000.


                  National Center for Research Resources

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to research resources and general research 
support grants, $1,182,015,000.


        National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to complementary and alternative medicine, 
$124,647,000.


        National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to minority health and health disparities 
research, $204,542,000.


                   john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of title IV of 
the Public Health Service Act), $68,216,000.


                       national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to health information communications, 
$329,039,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
improvement of information systems: Provided, That in fiscal year 2008, 
the National Library of Medicine may enter into personal services 
contracts for the provision of services in facilities owned, operated, 
or constructed under the jurisdiction of the National Institutes of 
Health: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
$8,200,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 241 
of the Public Health Service Act to carry out the purposes of the 
National Information Center on Health Services Research and Health Care 
Technology established under section 478A of the Public Health Service 
Act and related health services.


                          Office of the Director

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, National Institutes of Health, $1,145,790,000, of which up to 
$25,000,000 shall be used to carry out section 215 of this Act: 
Provided, That funding shall be available for the purchase of not to 
exceed 29 passenger motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided 
further, That the National Institutes of Health is authorized to 
collect third party payments for the cost of clinical services that are 
incurred in National Institutes of Health research facilities and that 
such payments shall be credited to the National Institutes of Health 
Management Fund: Provided further, That all funds credited to such Fund 
shall remain available for one fiscal year after the fiscal year in 
which they are deposited: Provided further, That no more than $500,000 
shall be available to carry out section 499 of the Public Health 
Service Act: Provided further, That $110,900,000 shall be available for 
continuation of the National Children's Study: Provided further, That 
$531,300,000 shall be available for the Common Fund established under 
section 402A(c)(1) of the Public Health Service Act: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided $10,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the Director of 
the National Institutes of Health: Provided further, That the Office of 
AIDS Research within the Office of the Director of the National 
Institutes of Health may spend up to $4,000,000 to make grants for 
construction or renovation of facilities as provided for in section 
2354(a)(5)(B) of the Public Health Service Act.


                         Buildings and Facilities

    For the study of, construction of, renovation of, and acquisition 
of equipment for, facilities of or used by the National Institutes of 
Health, including the acquisition of real property, $130,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration


                substance abuse and mental health services

    For carrying out titles V and XIX of the Public Health Service Act 
(``PHS Act'') with respect to substance abuse and mental health 
services, the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental 
Illness Act, and section 301 of the PHS Act with respect to program 
management, $3,290,848,000, of which $19,644,000 shall be available for 
the projects and in the amounts specified in the statement of the 
managers on the conference report accompanying this Act: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 520A(f)(2) of the PHS Act, no funds 
appropriated for carrying out section 520A are available for carrying 
out section 1971 of the PHS Act: Provided further, That in addition to 
amounts provided herein, the following amounts shall be available under 
section 241 of the PHS Act: (1) $79,200,000 to carry out subpart II of 
part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 1935(b) technical 
assistance, national data, data collection and evaluation activities, 
and further that the total available under this Act for section 1935(b) 
activities shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts appropriated for 
subpart II of part B of title XIX; (2) $21,413,000 to carry out subpart 
I of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 1920(b) 
technical assistance, national data, data collection and evaluation 
activities, and further that the total available under this Act for 
section 1920(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts 
appropriated for subpart I of part B of title XIX; (3) $19,750,000 to 
carry out national surveys on drug abuse; and (4) $4,300,000 to 
evaluate substance abuse treatment programs: Provided further, That 
section 520E(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act shall not apply to 
funds appropriated under this Act for fiscal year 2008.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality


                     Healthcare Research and Quality

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health Service 
Act, and part A of title XI of the Social Security Act, amounts 
received from Freedom of Information Act fees, reimbursable and 
interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the amount made available pursuant to section 937(c) of the Public 
Health Service Act shall not exceed $334,564,000.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services


                      Grants to States for Medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $141,628,056,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 2008, payments to States under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 2008 for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on 
behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2009, $67,292,669,000, to remain available 
until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with respect to 
a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such quarter, if 
submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that or any 
subsequent quarter.


                   Payments to Health Care Trust Funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
1844 and 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 
111(d) of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of 
Public Law 97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to 
section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, $188,828,000,000.
    In addition, for making matching payments under section 1844, and 
benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act, not 
anticipated in budget estimates, such sums as may be necessary.


                            Program Management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement 
Amendments of 1988, not to exceed $3,276,502,000, to be transferred 
from the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of the 
Social Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance 
with section 353 of the Public Health Service Act and section 
1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act, funds retained by the Secretary 
pursuant to section 302 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006; 
and such sums as may be collected from authorized user fees and the 
sale of data, which shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That all funds derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from 
organizations established under title XIII of the Public Health Service 
Act shall be credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of 
this appropriation: Provided further, That $49,869,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2009, is for contract costs for the 
Healthcare Integrated General Ledger Accounting System: Provided 
further, That $193,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2009, is for CMS Medicare contracting reform activities: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading are available for 
the Healthy Start, Grow Smart program under which the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services may, directly or through grants, 
contracts, or cooperative agreements, produce and distribute 
informational materials including, but not limited to, pamphlets and 
brochures on infant and toddler health care to expectant parents 
enrolled in the Medicaid program and to parents and guardians enrolled 
in such program with infants and children: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services is directed to collect fees in 
fiscal year 2008 from Medicare Advantage organizations pursuant to 
section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act and from eligible 
organizations with risk-sharing contracts under section 1876 of that 
Act pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act: Provided further, 
That $5,140,000 shall be available for the projects and in the amounts 
specified in the statement of the managers on the conference report 
accompanying this Act.


               HEALTH CARE FRAUD ABUSE AND CONTROL ACCOUNT

    In addition to amounts otherwise available for program integrity 
and program management, $383,000,000, to be available until expended, 
to be transferred from the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of 
the Social Security Act, of which $249,620,000 is for the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services for carrying out program integrity 
activities with respect to title XVIII of such Act, including 
activities authorized under the Medicare Integrity Program under 
section 1893 of such Act; of which $35,000,000 is for the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services for carrying out Medicaid IPIA 
Compliance with respect to titles XIX and XXI of such Act; and of 
which, for carrying out fraud and abuse control activities authorized 
by section 1817(k)(3) of such Act, $36,690,000 is for the Department of 
Justice; $36,690,000 is for the Department of Health and Human Services 
Office of the Inspector General; and $25,000,000 is for the Department 
of Health and Human Services: Provided, That the report required by 
section 1817(k)(5) of such Act for fiscal year 2008 shall include 
measures of the operational efficiency and impact on fraud, waste and 
abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs of the funds provided by 
this appropriation.

                Administration for Children and Families


   Payments to States for Child Support Enforcement and Family Support 
                                Programs

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. chapter 9), $2,949,713,000, to remain 
available until expended; and for such purposes for the first quarter 
of fiscal year 2009, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making payments to each State for carrying out the program of 
Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title IV-A of the Social 
Security Act before the effective date of the program of Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) with respect to such State, such 
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That the sum of the amounts 
available to a State with respect to expenditures under such title IV-A 
in fiscal year 1997 under this appropriation and under such title IV-A 
as amended by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 shall not exceed the limitations under 
section 116(b) of such Act.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 
U.S.C. chapter 9), for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.


                    low-income home energy assistance

    For making payments under section 2604(a)-(d) of the Low-Income 
Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8623(a)-(d)), 
$1,980,000,000.
    For making payments under section 2604(e) of the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8623(e)), $431,585,000, 
notwithstanding the designation requirement of section 2602(e) of such 
Act.


                      Refugee and Entrant Assistance

    For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
activities and for costs associated with the care and placement of 
unaccompanied alien children authorized by title IV of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance 
Act of 1980, for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002, and for carrying out the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998, 
$652,394,000, of which up to $9,814,000 shall be available to carry out 
the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading pursuant to section 414(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act and section 462 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 for fiscal year 2008 shall be available for the 
costs of assistance provided and other activities to remain available 
through September 30, 2010.


    Payments to States for the Child Care and Development Block Grant

    For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 
1990, $2,094,581,000 shall be used to supplement, not supplant State 
general revenue funds for child care assistance for low-income 
families: Provided, That $18,777,370 shall be available for child care 
resource and referral and school-aged child care activities, of which 
$982,080 shall be for the Child Care Aware toll-free hotline: Provided 
further, That, in addition to the amounts required to be reserved by 
the States under section 658G, $267,785,718 shall be reserved by the 
States for activities authorized under section 658G, of which 
$98,208,000 shall be for activities that improve the quality of infant 
and toddler care: Provided further, That $9,821,000 shall be for use by 
the Secretary for child care research, demonstration, and evaluation 
activities.
    In addition, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2009, shall be for carrying out the small business child care grant 
program under section 8303 of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, 
Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007.


                       Social Services Block Grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,700,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable 
percent specified under such subparagraph for a State to carry out 
State programs pursuant to title XX of such Act shall be 10 percent.


                 Children and Families Services Programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act, sections 310 and 316 of the Family Violence Prevention 
and Services Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title II of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 
1978 (adoption opportunities), sections 330F and 330G of the Public 
Health Service Act, the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988, 
sections 261 and 291 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, part B(1) of 
title IV and sections 413, 1110, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; 
for making payments under the Community Services Block Grant Act, 
sections 439(i), 473B, and 477(i) of the Social Security Act, and the 
Assets for Independence Act, and for necessary administrative expenses 
to carry out such Acts and titles I, IV, V, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XX of 
the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. chapter 9), 
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, title IV of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, section 501 of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, and section 505 of the Family Support Act of 
1988, $9,220,695,000, of which $4,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2009, shall be for grants to States for adoption 
incentive payments, as authorized by section 473A of the Social 
Security Act and may be made for adoptions completed before September 
30, 2008: Provided, That $7,042,196,000 shall be for making payments 
under the Head Start Act, of which $1,388,800,000 shall become 
available October 1, 2008, and remain available through September 30, 
2009: Provided further, That $706,125,000 shall be for making payments 
under the Community Services Block Grant Act: Provided further, That 
not less than $8,000,000 shall be for section 680(3)(B) of the 
Community Services Block Grant Act: Provided further, That in addition 
to amounts provided herein, $6,000,000 shall be available from amounts 
available under section 241 of the Public Health Service Act to carry 
out the provisions of section 1110 of the Social Security Act: Provided 
further, That to the extent Community Services Block Grant funds are 
distributed as grant funds by a State to an eligible entity as provided 
under the Act, and have not been expended by such entity, they shall 
remain with such entity for carryover into the next fiscal year for 
expenditure by such entity consistent with program purposes: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
establish procedures regarding the disposition of intangible property 
which permits grant funds, or intangible assets acquired with funds 
authorized under section 680 of the Community Services Block Grant Act 
to become the sole property of such grantees after a period of not more 
than 12 years after the end of the grant for purposes and uses 
consistent with the original grant: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated for section 680(a)(2) of the Community Services Block 
Grant Act shall be available for financing construction and 
rehabilitation and loans or investments in private business enterprises 
owned by community development corporations: Provided further, That 
$53,625,000 is for a compassion capital fund to provide grants to 
charitable organizations to emulate model social service programs and 
to encourage research on the best practices of social service 
organizations: Provided further, That $18,820,000 shall be for 
activities authorized by the Help America Vote Act of 2002, of which 
$12,920,000 shall be for payments to States to promote access for 
voters with disabilities, and of which $5,900,000 shall be for payments 
to States for protection and advocacy systems for voters with 
disabilities: Provided further, That $136,664,000 shall be for making 
competitive grants to provide abstinence education (as defined by 
section 510(b)(2) of the Social Security Act) to adolescents, and for 
Federal costs of administering the grant: Provided further, That grants 
under the immediately preceding proviso shall be made only to public 
and private entities which agree that, with respect to an adolescent to 
whom the entities provide abstinence education under such grant, the 
entities will not provide to that adolescent any other education 
regarding sexual conduct, except that, in the case of an entity 
expressly required by law to provide health information or services the 
adolescent shall not be precluded from seeking health information or 
services from the entity in a different setting than the setting in 
which abstinence education was provided: Provided further, That within 
amounts provided herein for abstinence education for adolescents, up to 
$10,000,000 may be available for a national abstinence education 
campaign: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided herein 
for abstinence education for adolescents, $4,500,000 shall be available 
from amounts available under section 241 of the Public Health Service 
Act to carry out evaluations (including longitudinal evaluations) of 
adolescent pregnancy prevention approaches: Provided further, That up 
to $2,000,000 shall be for improving the Public Assistance Reporting 
Information System, including grants to States to support data 
collection for a study of the system's effectiveness.


                    Promoting Safe and Stable Families

    For carrying out section 436 of the Social Security Act, 
$345,000,000 and section 437, $89,100,000.


        Payments to States for Foster Care and Adoption Assistance

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $5,067,000,000.
    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Act, for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, 
$1,776,000,000.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under section 474 of title IV-E, 
for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for unanticipated 
costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                        Administration on Aging


                         Aging Services Programs

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 and section 398 of the Public Health Service Act, 
$1,446,651,000, of which $5,500,000 shall be available for activities 
regarding medication management, screening, and education to prevent 
incorrect medication and adverse drug reactions.

                        Office of the Secretary


                     General Departmental Management

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six sedans, and for carrying 
out titles III, XVII, XX, and XXI of the Public Health Service Act, the 
Lifespan Respite Care Act, the United States-Mexico Border Health 
Commission Act, and research studies under section 1110 of the Social 
Security Act, $387,070,000, together with $5,851,000 to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical 
Insurance Trust Fund, and $46,756,000 from the amounts available under 
section 241 of the Public Health Service Act to carry out national 
health or human services research and evaluation activities: Provided, 
That of the funds made available under this heading for carrying out 
title XX of the Public Health Service Act, $13,120,000 shall be for 
activities specified under section 2003(b)(2), all of which shall be 
for prevention service demonstration grants under section 510(b)(2) of 
title V of the Social Security Act, as amended, without application of 
the limitation of section 2010(c) of said title XX: Provided further, 
That of this amount, $51,891,000 shall be for minority AIDS prevention 
and treatment activities; and $5,941,000 shall be to assist Afghanistan 
in the development of maternal and child health clinics, consistent 
with section 103(a)(4)(H) of the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 
2002; and $1,000,000 shall be transferred, not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, to the National Institute of Mental Health to 
administer the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee; and 
$5,500,000 shall be for a Health Diplomacy Initiative and may be used 
to carry out health diplomacy activities such as health training, 
services, education, and program evaluation, provided directly, through 
grants, or through contracts: Provided further, That specific 
information requests from the chairmen and ranking members of the 
Subcommittees on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
Related Agencies, on scientific research or any other matter, shall be 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations in a prompt, 
professional manner and within the time frame specified in the request: 
Provided further, That scientific information, including such 
information provided in congressional testimony, requested by the 
Committees on Appropriations and prepared by government researchers and 
scientists shall be transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations, 
uncensored and without delay: Provided further, That funds provided in 
this Act for embryo adoption activities may be used to provide, to 
individuals adopting embryos, through grants and other mechanisms, 
medical and administrative services deemed necessary for such 
adoptions: Provided further, That such services shall be provided 
consistent with 42 CFR 59.5(a)(4).


                 Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals

    For expenses necessary for administrative law judges responsible 
for hearing cases under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (and 
related provisions of title XI of such Act), $67,500,000, to be 
transferred in appropriate part from the Federal Hospital Insurance and 
the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds.


   Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the National Coordinator 
for Health Information Technology, including grants, contracts and 
cooperative agreements for the development and advancement of an 
interoperable national health information technology infrastructure, 
$27,651,000: Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
$38,500,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 241 
of the Public Health Service Act to carry out health information 
technology network development.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for investigations, in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$45,187,000: Provided, That of such amount, necessary sums are 
available for providing protective services to the Secretary and 
investigating non-payment of child support cases for which non-payment 
is a Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. 228.


                         Office for Civil Rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$33,748,000, together with not to exceed $3,314,000 to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical 
Insurance Trust Fund.


      Retirement Pay and Medical Benefits for Commissioned Officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. chapter 55), such amounts as 
may be required during the current fiscal year.


             Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, disease, nuclear, radiological and chemical 
threats to civilian populations, and for other public health 
emergencies, $741,586,000, of which not to exceed $22,363,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2009, is to pay the costs 
described in section 319F-2(c)(7)(B) of the Public Health Service Act, 
and of which $149,250,000 shall be used to support advanced research 
and development of medical countermeasures, consistent with section 
319L of the Public Health Service Act.
    For expenses necessary to prepare for and respond to an influenza 
pandemic, $763,923,000, of which $685,832,000 shall be available until 
expended, for activities including the development and purchase of 
vaccine, antivirals, necessary medical supplies, diagnostics, and other 
surveillance tools: Provided, That products purchased with these funds 
may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be deposited in the Strategic 
National Stockpile: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
496(b) of the Public Health Service Act, funds may be used for the 
construction or renovation of privately owned facilities for the 
production of pandemic influenza vaccines and other biologicals, where 
the Secretary finds such a contract necessary to secure sufficient 
supplies of such vaccines or biologicals: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated herein may be transferred to other appropriation accounts 
of the Department of Health and Human Services, as determined by the 
Secretary to be appropriate, to be used for the purposes specified in 
this sentence.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201. Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $50,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services.
    Sec. 202. The Secretary shall make available through assignment not 
more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child 
survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the United 
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 203. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, the Agency for Healthcare Research and 
Quality, and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an individual, 
through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of 
Executive Level I.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds appropriated in this title for Head 
Start shall be used to pay the compensation of an individual, either as 
direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate in excess 
of Executive Level II.
    Sec. 205. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the Public Health Service Act, 
except for funds specifically provided for in this Act, or for other 
taps and assessments made by any office located in the Department of 
Health and Human Services, prior to the preparation and submission of a 
report by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
detailing the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 206. Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the Public Health 
Service Act, such portion as the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall determine, but not more than 2.4 percent, of any amounts 
appropriated for programs authorized under such Act shall be made 
available for the evaluation (directly, or by grants or contracts) of 
the implementation and effectiveness of such programs.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 207. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Health and Human Services in this Act may be transferred 
between a program, project, or activity, but no such program, project, 
or activity shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer: Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
shall be available only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208. The Director of the National Institutes of Health, 
jointly with the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer 
up to 3 percent among institutes and centers from the total amounts 
identified by these two Directors as funding for research pertaining to 
the human immunodeficiency virus: Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 209. Of the amounts made available in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, the amount for research related to the 
human immunodeficiency virus, as jointly determined by the Director of 
the National Institutes of Health and the Director of the Office of 
AIDS Research, shall be made available to the ``Office of AIDS 
Research'' account. The Director of the Office of AIDS Research shall 
transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out section 
2353(d)(3) of the Public Health Service Act.
    Sec. 210. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the Public Health Service Act 
unless the applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it 
encourages family participation in the decision of minors to seek 
family planning services and that it provides counseling to minors on 
how to resist attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual 
activities.
    Sec. 211. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
exempt from any State law requiring notification or the reporting of 
child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 212. None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services denies participation in such program to an otherwise eligible 
entity (including a Provider Sponsored Organization) because the entity 
informs the Secretary that it will not provide, pay for, provide 
coverage of, or provide referrals for abortions: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall make appropriate prospective adjustments to the 
capitation payment to such an entity (based on an actuarially sound 
estimate of the expected costs of providing the service to such 
entity's enrollees): Provided further, That nothing in this section 
shall be construed to change the Medicare program's coverage for such 
services and a Medicare Advantage organization described in this 
section shall be responsible for informing enrollees where to obtain 
information about all Medicare covered services.
    Sec. 213. (a) Except as provided by subsection (e) none of the 
funds appropriated by this Act may be used to withhold substance abuse 
funding from a State pursuant to section 1926 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-26) if such State certifies to the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services by May 1, 2008, that the State 
will commit additional State funds, in accordance with subsection (b), 
to ensure compliance with State laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco 
products to individuals under 18 years of age.
    (b) The amount of funds to be committed by a State under subsection 
(a) shall be equal to 1 percent of such State's substance abuse block 
grant allocation for each percentage point by which the State misses 
the retailer compliance rate goal established by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services under section 1926 of such Act.
    (c) The State is to maintain State expenditures in fiscal year 2008 
for tobacco prevention programs and for compliance activities at a 
level that is not less than the level of such expenditures maintained 
by the State for fiscal year 2007, and adding to that level the 
additional funds for tobacco compliance activities required under 
subsection (a). The State is to submit a report to the Secretary on all 
fiscal year 2007 State expenditures and all fiscal year 2008 
obligations for tobacco prevention and compliance activities by program 
activity by July 31, 2008.
    (d) The Secretary shall exercise discretion in enforcing the timing 
of the State obligation of the additional funds required by the 
certification described in subsection (a) as late as July 31, 2008.
    (e) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
withhold substance abuse funding pursuant to section 1926 of the Public 
Health Service Act from a territory that receives less than $1,000,000.
    Sec. 214. In order for the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention to carry out international health activities, including HIV/
AIDS and other infectious disease, chronic and environmental disease, 
and other health activities abroad during fiscal year 2008:
        (1) The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section 
    referred to as the ``Secretary of HHS'') may exercise authority 
    equivalent to that available to the Secretary of State in section 
    2(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
    U.S.C. 2669(c)). The Secretary of HHS shall consult with the 
    Secretary of State and relevant Chief of Mission to ensure that the 
    authority provided in this section is exercised in a manner 
    consistent with section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
    U.S.C. 3927) and other applicable statutes administered by the 
    Department of State.
        (2) The Secretary of HHS is authorized to provide such funds by 
    advance or reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
    necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, alteration, 
    renovation, and management of facilities outside of the United 
    States for the use of the Department of Health and Human Services. 
    The Department of State shall cooperate fully with the Secretary of 
    HHS to ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services has 
    secure, safe, functional facilities that comply with applicable 
    regulation governing location, setback, and other facilities 
    requirements and serve the purposes established by this Act. The 
    Secretary of HHS is authorized, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of State, through grant or cooperative agreement, to make available 
    to public or nonprofit private institutions or agencies in 
    participating foreign countries, funds to acquire, lease, alter, or 
    renovate facilities in those countries as necessary to conduct 
    programs of assistance for international health activities, 
    including activities relating to HIV/AIDS and other infectious 
    diseases, chronic and environmental diseases, and other health 
    activities abroad.
    Sec. 215. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Director of the National Institutes of Health (in this section 
referred to as the ``Director of NIH'') may use funds available under 
section 402(b)(7) or 402(b)(12) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 282(b)(7), 282(b)(12)) to enter into transactions (other than 
contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants) to carry out research 
identified pursuant to such section 402(b)(7) (pertaining to the Common 
Fund) or research and activities described in such section 402(b)(12).
    (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under subsection 
(a), the Director of the NIH may utilize such peer review procedures 
(including consultation with appropriate scientific experts) as the 
Director determines to be appropriate to obtain assessments of 
scientific and technical merit. Such procedures shall apply to such 
transactions in lieu of the peer review and advisory council review 
procedures that would otherwise be required under sections 301(a)(3), 
405(b)(1)(B), 405(b)(2), 406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 494 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241(a)(3), 284(b)(1)(B), 284(b)(2), 
284a(a)(3)(A), 289a, and 289c).
    Sec. 216. Funds which are available for Individual Learning 
Accounts for employees of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (``CDC'') and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
Registry (``ATSDR'') may be transferred to ``Disease Control, Research, 
and Training'', to be available only for Individual Learning Accounts: 
Provided, That such funds may be used for any individual full-time 
equivalent employee while such employee is employed either by CDC or 
ATSDR.
    Sec. 217. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, funds made 
available in this Act may be used to continue operating the Council on 
Graduate Medical Education established by section 301 of Public Law 
102-408.
    Sec. 218. The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall 
require that all investigators funded by the NIH submit or have 
submitted for them to the National Library of Medicine's PubMed Central 
an electronic version of their final, peer-reviewed manuscripts upon 
acceptance for publication, to be made publicly available no later than 
12 months after the official date of publication: Provided, That the 
NIH shall implement the public access policy in a manner consistent 
with copyright law.
    Sec. 219. (a) The Secretary of Health and Human Services is 
authorized to award a grant to the Delta Health Alliance, a nonprofit 
alliance of academic institutions in the Mississippi Delta region that 
has as its primary purposes addressing longstanding, unmet health needs 
and catalyzing economic development in the Mississippi Delta.
    (b) To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), the 
Delta Health Alliance shall solicit and fund proposals from local 
governments, hospitals, health care clinics, academic institutions, and 
rural public health-related entities and organizations for research 
development, educational programs, health care services, job training, 
and planning, construction, and equipment of public health-related 
facilities in the Mississippi Delta region.
    (c) With respect to the use of grant funds under this section for 
construction or major alteration of property, the Federal interest in 
the property involved shall last for a period of 1 year following the 
completion of the project or until such time that the Federal 
Government is compensated for its proportionate interest in the 
property if the property use changes or the property is transferred or 
sold, whichever time period is less. At the conclusion of such period, 
the Notice of Federal Interest in such property shall be removed.
    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this section in fiscal year 2008 and in each of 
the five succeeding fiscal years.
    Sec. 220. Not to exceed $35,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
Act to the institutes and centers of the National Institutes of Health 
may be used for alteration, repair, or improvement of facilities, as 
necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the activities 
authorized herein, at not to exceed $2,500,000 per project.
    Sec. 221. (a) Prohibition.--With respect to the 2010-2011 influenza 
season, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (the Secretary) 
shall not use or make available any funds for the administration of any 
influenza vaccine containing thimerosal as a preservative (thimerosal-
free) to any child under 3 years of age, unless the Secretary:
        (1) finds that there is inadequate supply of thimerosal-free 
    influenza vaccine for the covered population and for the respective 
    influenza season; or
        (2) finds that an actual or potential public health situation 
    justifies the use of other influenza vaccine for children under 3 
    years of age; and
        (3) gives written notice of such findings (and an explanation 
    of the basis for the findings) to the Congress and of actions the 
    Secretary is taking to ensure adequate supply of pediatric 
    thimerosal-free influenza vaccine for the following influenza 
    season.
    (b) Report to Congress.--To improve public confidence in the safety 
of vaccines, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a plan no later 
than April 1, 2008--
        (1) to work proactively with manufacturers of influenza vaccine 
    to facilitate the approval of thimerosal-free influenza vaccine for 
    administration to children under 3 years of age;
        (2) to increase the Federal Government's purchases of 
    thimerosal-free influenza vaccine; and
        (3) to take any other actions determined appropriate by the 
    Secretary to increase the supply of thimerosal-free influenza 
    vaccine.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222. Of the amounts made available in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, 1 percent of the amount made available 
for National Research Service Awards (NRSA) shall be made available to 
the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration 
to make NRSA awards for research in primary medical care to individuals 
affiliated with entities who have received grants or contracts under 
section 747 of the Public Health Service Act, and 1 percent of the 
amount made available for NRSA shall be made available to the Director 
of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to make NRSA awards 
for health service research.
    Sec. 223. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used--
        (1) for the Ombudsman Program of the Centers for Disease 
    Control and Prevention; and
        (2) by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to 
    provide additional rotating pastel lights, zero-gravity chairs, or 
    dry-heat saunas for its fitness center.
    Sec. 224. There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United 
States a fund to be known as the ``Nonrecurring expenses fund'' (the 
Fund): Provided, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary 
funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the 
General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Health and Human 
Services by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than 
the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which 
such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into 
the Fund: Provided further, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be 
available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be 
available for such purposes, for capital acquisition necessary for the 
operation of the Department, including facilities infrastructure and 
information technology infrastructure, subject to approval by the 
Office of Management and Budget: Provided further, That amounts in the 
Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 
days in advance of the planned use of funds.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2008''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') and section 418A of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, $15,930,691,000, of which $7,611,423,000 shall become available 
on July 1, 2008, and shall remain available through September 30, 2009, 
and of which $8,136,218,000 shall become available on October 1, 2008, 
and shall remain available through September 30, 2009, for academic 
year 2008-2009: Provided, That $6,808,971,000 shall be for basic grants 
under section 1124: Provided further, That up to $4,000,000 of these 
funds shall be available to the Secretary of Education on October 1, 
2007, to obtain annually updated local educational-agency-level census 
poverty data from the Bureau of the Census: Provided further, That 
$1,365,031,000 shall be for concentration grants under section 1124A: 
Provided further, That $3,068,680,000 shall be for targeted grants 
under section 1125: Provided further, That $3,068,680,000 shall be for 
education finance incentive grants under section 1125A: Provided 
further, That $9,330,000 shall be to carry out sections 1501 and 1503: 
Provided further, That $1,634,000 shall be available for a 
comprehensive school reform clearinghouse.

                               Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $1,262,778,000, of which 
$1,126,192,000 shall be for basic support payments under section 
8003(b), $49,466,000 shall be for payments for children with 
disabilities under section 8003(d), $17,820,000 shall be for 
construction under section 8007(b) and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2009, $64,350,000 shall be for Federal property payments 
under section 8002, and $4,950,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008: Provided, That 
for purposes of computing the amount of a payment for an eligible local 
educational agency under section 8003(a) for school year 2007-2008, 
children enrolled in a school of such agency that would otherwise be 
eligible for payment under section 8003(a)(1)(B) of such Act, but due 
to the deployment of both parents or legal guardians, or a parent or 
legal guardian having sole custody of such children, or due to the 
death of a military parent or legal guardian while on active duty (so 
long as such children reside on Federal property as described in 
section 8003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer eligible under such section, 
shall be considered as eligible students under such section, provided 
such students remain in average daily attendance at a school in the 
same local educational agency they attended prior to their change in 
eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by title 
II, part B of title IV, subparts 6 and 9 of part D of title V, parts A 
and B of title VI, and parts B and C of title VII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA''); the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act; section 203 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act 
of 2002; the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003; and 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $5,411,758,000, of which $3,790,731,000 
shall become available on July 1, 2008, and remain available through 
September 30, 2009, and of which $1,435,000,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2008, and shall remain available through September 30, 
2009, for academic year 2008-2009: Provided, That funds made available 
to carry out part B of title VII of the ESEA may be used for 
construction, renovation and modernization of any elementary school, 
secondary school, or structure related to an elementary school or 
secondary school, run by the Department of Education of the State of 
Hawaii, that serves a predominantly Native Hawaiian student body: 
Provided further, That from the funds referred to in the preceding 
proviso, not less than $1,250,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Department of Education of the State of Hawaii for the activities 
described in such proviso, and $1,250,000 shall be for a grant to the 
University of Hawaii School of Law for a Center of Excellence in Native 
Hawaiian law: Provided further, That funds made available to carry out 
part C of title VII of the ESEA may be used for construction: Provided 
further, That up to 100 percent of the funds available to a State 
educational agency under part D of title II of the ESEA may be used for 
subgrants described in section 2412(a)(2)(B) of such Act: Provided 
further, That $58,129,000 shall be available to carry out section 203 
of the Educational Technical Assistance Act of 2002: Provided further, 
That $34,376,000 shall be available to carry out part D of title V of 
the ESEA: Provided further, That no funds appropriated under this 
heading may be used to carry out section 5494 under the ESEA: Provided 
further, That $18,001,000 shall be available to carry out the 
Supplemental Education Grants program for the Federated States of 
Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands: Provided further, 
That up to 5 percent of these amounts may be reserved by the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands to 
administer the Supplemental Education Grants programs and to obtain 
technical assistance, oversight and consultancy services in the 
administration of these grants and to reimburse the United States 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education for such 
services: Provided further, That $3,000,000 of the funds available for 
the Foreign Language Assistance Program shall be available for 5-year 
grants to local educational agencies that would work in partnership 
with one or more institutions of higher education to establish or 
expand articulated programs of study in languages critical to United 
States national security that will enable successful students to 
advance from elementary school through college to achieve a superior 
level of proficiency in those languages.

                            Indian Education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title VII, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, $124,000,000.

                       Innovation and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by part G of title I, 
subpart 5 of part A and parts C and D of title II, parts B, C, and D of 
title V, and section 1504 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 (``ESEA''), $1,010,084,000: Provided, That $9,821,000 shall be 
provided to the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards to 
carry out section 2151(c) of the ESEA: Provided further, That from 
funds for subpart 4, part C of title II, up to 3 percent shall be 
available to the Secretary for technical assistance and dissemination 
of information: Provided further, That $361,917,000 shall be available 
to carry out part D of title V of the ESEA: Provided further, That 
$103,293,000 of the funds for subpart 1, part D of title V of the ESEA 
shall be available for the projects and in the amounts specified in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying this 
Act: Provided further, That $99,000,000 of the funds for subpart 1 
shall be for competitive grants to local educational agencies, 
including charter schools that are local educational agencies, or 
States, or partnerships of: (1) a local educational agency, a State, or 
both; and (2) at least one non-profit organization to develop and 
implement performance-based teacher and principal compensation systems 
in high-need schools: Provided further, That such performance-based 
compensation systems must consider gains in student academic 
achievement as well as classroom evaluations conducted multiple times 
during each school year among other factors and provide educators with 
incentives to take on additional responsibilities and leadership roles: 
Provided further, That up to 5 percent of such funds for competitive 
grants shall be available for technical assistance, training, peer 
review of applications, program outreach and evaluation activities: 
Provided further, That of the funds available for part B of title V, 
the Secretary shall use up to $24,783,000 to carry out activities under 
section 5205(b) and under subpart 2, and shall use not less than 
$190,000,000 to carry out other activities authorized under subpart 1.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

    For carrying out activities authorized by subpart 3 of part C of 
title II, part A of title IV, and subparts 2, 3, and 10 of part D of 
title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
(``ESEA''), $708,835,000, of which $300,000,000 shall become available 
on July 1, 2008, and remain available through September 30, 2009: 
Provided, That $300,000,000 shall be available for subpart 1 of part A 
of title IV and $222,519,000 shall be available for subpart 2 of part A 
of title IV, of which not less than $1,500,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for the Project School Emergency Response to 
Violence (``Project SERV'') program to provide education-related 
services to local educational agencies and to institutions of higher 
education in which the learning environment has been disrupted due to a 
violent or traumatic crisis: Provided further, That Project SERV funds 
appropriated in previous fiscal years may be used to provide services 
to local educational agencies and to institutions of higher education 
in which the learning environment has been disrupted due to a violent 
or traumatic crisis: Provided further, That $152,998,000 shall be 
available to carry out part D of title V of the ESEA: Provided further, 
That of the funds available to carry out subpart 3 of part C of title 
II, up to $12,072,000 may be used to carry out section 2345 and 
$3,025,000 shall be used by the Center for Civic Education to implement 
a comprehensive program to improve public knowledge, understanding, and 
support of the Congress and the State legislatures.

                      English Language Acquisition

    For carrying out part A of title III of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $722,717,000, which shall become 
available on July 1, 2008, and shall remain available through September 
30, 2009, except that 6.5 percent of such amount shall be available on 
October 1, 2007, and shall remain available through September 30, 2009, 
to carry out activities under section 3111(c)(1)(C).

                           Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(``IDEA'') and the Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004, 
$12,357,999,000, of which $5,461,394,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2008, and shall remain available through September 30, 2009, and of 
which $6,654,982,000 shall become available on October 1, 2008, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2009, for academic year 
2008-2009: Provided, That $13,000,000 shall be for Recording for the 
Blind and Dyslexic, Inc., to support activities under section 
674(c)(1)(D) of the IDEA: Provided further, That $1,500,000 shall be 
for the recipient of funds provided by Public Law 105-78 under section 
687(b)(2)(G) of the IDEA (as in effect prior to the enactment of the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2004) to 
provide information on diagnosis, intervention, and teaching strategies 
for children with disabilities: Provided further, That the amount for 
section 611(b)(2) of the IDEA shall be equal to the lesser of the 
amount available for that activity during fiscal year 2007, increased 
by the amount of inflation as specified in section 619(d)(2)(B) of the 
IDEA, or the percentage increase in the funds appropriated under 
section 611(i) of the IDEA: Provided further, That nothing in section 
674(e) of the IDEA shall be construed to establish a private right of 
action against the National Instructional Materials Access Center for 
failure to perform the duties of such center or otherwise authorize a 
private right of action related to the performance of such center: 
Provided further, That $8,000,000 shall be available to support the 
2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games.

            Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (``the 
AT Act''), and the Helen Keller National Center Act, $3,285,985,000, of 
which $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the American Academy of Orthotists 
and Prosthetists for activities that further the purposes of the grant 
received by the Academy for the period beginning October 1, 2003, 
including activities to meet the demand for orthotic and prosthetic 
provider services and improve patient care: Provided, That $3,242,000 
of the funds for section 303 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 shall be 
available for the projects and in the amounts specified in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying this 
Act.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities


                  american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, $22,000,000.


                National Technical Institute for the Deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, $60,757,000, of which 
$1,705,000 shall be for construction and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That from the total amount available, the Institute 
may at its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized 
under section 207 of such Act.


                           Gallaudet University

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986, $115,400,000: Provided, That from the total amount available, the 
University may at its discretion use funds for the endowment program as 
authorized under section 207.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the Adult Education 
and Family Literacy Act, subpart 4 of part D of title V of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') and title 
VIII-D of the Higher Education Amendments of 1998, $2,013,329,000, of 
which $1,218,252,000 shall become available on July 1, 2008, and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2009, and of which $791,000,000 
shall become available on October 1, 2008, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2009: Provided, That of the amount provided for 
Adult Education State Grants, $69,759,000 shall be made available for 
integrated English literacy and civics education services to immigrants 
and other limited English proficient populations: Provided further, 
That of the amount reserved for integrated English literacy and civics 
education, notwithstanding section 211 of the Adult Education and 
Family Literacy Act, 65 percent shall be allocated to States based on a 
State's absolute need as determined by calculating each State's share 
of a 10-year average of the United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services data for immigrants admitted for legal permanent residence for 
the 10 most recent years, and 35 percent allocated to States that 
experienced growth as measured by the average of the 3 most recent 
years for which United States Citizenship and Immigration Services data 
for immigrants admitted for legal permanent residence are available, 
except that no State shall be allocated an amount less than $60,000: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available for the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act, $7,000,000 shall be for national 
leadership activities under section 243 and $6,638,000 shall be for the 
National Institute for Literacy under section 242: Provided further, 
That $81,532,000 shall be available to support the activities 
authorized under subpart 4 of part D of title V of the ESEA, of which 
up to 5 percent shall become available October 1, 2007, and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2009, for evaluation, technical 
assistance, school networks, peer review of applications, and program 
outreach activities, and of which not less than 95 percent shall become 
available on July 1, 2008, and remain available through September 30, 
2009, for grants to local educational agencies: Provided further, That 
funds made available to local educational agencies under this subpart 
shall be used only for activities related to establishing smaller 
learning communities within large high schools or small high schools 
that provide alternatives for students enrolled in large high schools.

                      Student Financial Assistance


                          (including rescission)

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 4 of part A, part C and part E 
of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $16,379,883,000, which 
shall remain available through September 30, 2009.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2008-2009 shall be $4,435.
    Of the unobligated funds available under section 401A(e)(1)(C) of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, $525,000,000 are rescinded.
    For an additional amount to carry out subpart 1 of part A of title 
IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $525,000,000, which shall 
remain available through September 30, 2009.

                       Student Aid Administration

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of title I, 
and subparts 1, 3, and 4 of part A, and parts B, C, D, and E of title 
IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $708,216,000, which shall 
remain available until expended.

                            Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles II, 
III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (``HEA''), 
section 1543 of the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, title VIII of the Higher 
Education Amendments of 1998, part I of subtitle A of title VI of the 
America COMPETES Act, and section 117 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
Technical Education Act of 2006, $2,095,608,000: Provided, That 
$9,699,000, to remain available through September 30, 2009, shall be 
available to fund fellowships for academic year 2009-2010 under subpart 
1 of part A of title VII of the HEA, under the terms and conditions of 
such subpart 1: Provided further, That $620,000 is for data collection 
and evaluation activities for programs under the HEA, including such 
activities needed to comply with the Government Performance and Results 
Act of 1993: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds made available in this Act to carry out title VI of the 
HEA and section 102(b)(6) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 may be used to support visits and study in foreign 
countries by individuals who are participating in advanced foreign 
language training and international studies in areas that are vital to 
United States national security and who plan to apply their language 
skills and knowledge of these countries in the fields of government, 
the professions, or international development: Provided further, That 
of the funds referred to in the preceding proviso up to 1 percent may 
be used for program evaluation, national outreach, and information 
dissemination activities: Provided further, That the funds provided for 
title II of the HEA shall be allocated notwithstanding section 210 of 
such Act: Provided further, That $104,399,000 of the funds for part B 
of title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 shall be available for 
the projects and in the amounts specified in the statement of the 
managers on the conference report accompanying this Act.

                           Howard University

    For partial support of Howard University, $237,392,000, of which 
not less than $3,526,000 shall be for a matching endowment grant 
pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act (Public Law 98-480) and 
shall remain available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities related 
to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, $481,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Historically Black 
College and University Capital Financing Program entered into pursuant 
to part D of title III of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $188,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Education Sciences 
Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of Educational Progress 
Authorization Act, section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance 
Act of 2002, and section 664 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, $561,315,000, of which $293,155,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2009.

                        Departmental Management


                          Program Administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of three 
passenger motor vehicles, $420,698,000, of which $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for building alterations and related 
expenses for the move of Department staff to the Mary E. Switzer 
building in Washington, DC.


                         Office for Civil Rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $93,771,000.


                     Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $53,239,000.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 301. No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of 
equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial 
imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, 
except for a student requiring special education, to the school 
offering such special education, in order to comply with title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
indirect requirement of transportation of students includes the 
transportation of students to carry out a plan involving the 
reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of 
schools, or the clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing or clustering. The prohibition described in this 
section does not include the establishment of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303. No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to prevent 
the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in 
the public schools.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer: Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
shall be available only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate, implement, or enforce any revision to the regulations in 
effect under section 496 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 on June 1, 
2007, until legislation specifically requiring such revision is 
enacted.
    Sec. 306. (a) Maintenance of Integrity and Ethical Values Within 
Department of Education.--Within 30 days after the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Education shall implement procedures--
        (1) to assess whether a covered individual or entity has a 
    potential financial interest in, or bias towards, a product or 
    service purchased with, or guaranteed or insured by, funds 
    administered by the Department of Education or a contracted entity 
    of the Department; and
        (2) to disclose the existence of any such potential financial 
    interest or bias.
    (b) Review by Inspector General.--
        (1) Within 30 days after the implementation of the procedures 
    described in subsection (a), the Inspector General of the 
    Department of Education shall report to the Committees on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 
    the adequacy of such procedures.
        (2) Within 1 year, the Inspector General shall conduct at least 
    1 audit to ensure that such procedures are properly implemented and 
    are adequate to uncover and disclose the existence of potential 
    financial interests or bias described in subsection (a).
        (3) The Inspector General shall report to such Committees any 
    recommendations for modifications to such procedures that the 
    Inspector General determines are necessary to uncover and disclose 
    the existence of such potential financial interests or bias.
    (c) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``covered 
individual or entity'' means--
        (1) an officer or professional employee of the Department of 
    Education;
        (2) a contractor or subcontractor of the Department, or an 
    individual hired by the contracted entity;
        (3) a member of a peer review panel of the Department; or
        (4) a consultant or advisor to the Department.
    Sec. 307. (a) Notwithstanding section 8013(9)(B) of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965, North Chicago Community Unit 
School District 187, North Shore District 112, and Township High School 
District 113 in Lake County, Illinois, and Glenview Public School 
District 34 and Glenbrook High School District 225 in Cook County, 
Illinois, shall be considered local educational agencies as such term 
is used in and for purposes of title VIII of such Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, federally connected 
children (as determined under section 8003(a) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965) who are in attendance in the North 
Shore District 112, Township High School District 113, Glenview Public 
School District 34, and Glenbrook High School District 225 described in 
subsection (a), shall be considered to be in attendance in the North 
Chicago Community Unit School District 187 described in subsection (a) 
for purposes of computing the amount that the North Chicago Community 
Unit School District 187 is eligible to receive under subsection (b) or 
(d) of such section if--
        (1) such school districts have entered into an agreement for 
    such students to be so considered and for the equitable 
    apportionment among all such school districts of any amount 
    received by the North Chicago Community Unit School District 187 
    under such section; and
        (2) any amount apportioned among all such school districts 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) is used by such school districts only for 
    the direct provision of educational services.
    Sec. 308. Prior to January 1, 2008, the Secretary of Education may 
not terminate any voluntary flexible agreement under section 428A of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 that existed on October 1, 2007. With 
respect to an entity with which the Secretary of Education had a 
voluntary flexible agreement under section 428A of the Higher Education 
Act of 1965 on October 1, 2007, that is not cost neutral, if the 
Secretary terminates such agreement on or after January 1, 2008, the 
Secretary of Education shall, not later than March 31, 2008, negotiate 
to enter, and enter, into a new voluntary flexible agreement with such 
entity so that the agreement is cost neutral, unless such entity does 
not want to enter into such agreement.
    Sec. 309. Notwithstanding section 102(a)(4)(A) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, the Secretary of Education shall not take into 
account a bankruptcy petition filed in the United States Bankruptcy 
Court for the Northern District of New York on February 21, 2001, in 
determining whether a nonprofit educational institution that is a 
subsidiary of an entity that filed such petition meets the definition 
of an ``institution of higher education'' under section 102 of that 
Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2008''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-28, 
$4,994,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service


                            operating expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service to carry out the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
1973 (``1973 Act'') and the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(``1990 Act''), $798,065,000, of which $313,054,000 is to carry out the 
1973 Act and $485,011,000 is to carry out the 1990 Act: Provided, That 
up to 1 percent of program grant funds may be used to defray the costs 
of conducting grant application reviews, including the use of outside 
peer reviewers and electronic management of the grants cycle: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading for 
activities authorized by section 122 and part E of title II of the 1973 
Act shall be used to provide stipends or other monetary incentives to 
program participants or volunteer leaders whose incomes exceed the 
income guidelines in subsections 211(e) and 213(b) of the 1973 Act: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding subtitle H of title I of the 
1990 Act, none of the funds provided for quality and innovation 
activities shall be used to support salaries and related expenses 
(including travel) attributable to Corporation for National and 
Community Service employees: Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading: (1) not less than $126,121,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be transferred to the National Service 
Trust for educational awards authorized under subtitle D of title I of 
the 1990 Act: Provided further, That in addition to these funds, the 
Corporation may transfer funds from the amount provided for AmeriCorps 
grants under the National Service Trust Program, to the National 
Service Trust authorized under subtitle D of title I of the 1990 Act, 
upon determination that such transfer is necessary to support the 
activities of national service participants and after notice is 
transmitted to the Congress; (2) not more than $55,000,000 of funding 
provided for grants under the National Service Trust program authorized 
under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act may be used to administer, 
reimburse, or support any national service program authorized under 
section 129(d)(2) of such Act; (3) $12,000,000 shall be to provide 
assistance to State commissions on national and community service, 
under section 126(a) of the 1990 Act and notwithstanding section 
501(a)(4) of the 1990 Act; and (4) not less than $5,000,000 shall be 
for the acquisition, renovation, equipping and startup costs for a 
campus located in Vinton, Iowa, and a campus in Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
to carry out subtitle G of title I of the 1990 Act.


                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of administration as provided under section 
501(a)(4) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 and under 
section 504(a) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, including 
payment of salaries, authorized travel, hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, the rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
the employment of experts and consultants authorized under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $68,964,000.


                       OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $6,900,000.


                        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term 
``qualified student loan'' with respect to national service education 
awards shall mean any loan determined by an institution of higher 
education to be necessary to cover a student's cost of attendance at 
such institution and made, insured, or guaranteed directly to a student 
by a State agency, in addition to other meanings under section 
148(b)(7) of the National and Community Service Act.
    Sec. 402. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under section 129(d)(5)(B) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 to assist entities in placing applicants who are 
individuals with disabilities may be provided to any entity that 
receives a grant under section 121 of the Act.
    Sec. 403. The Inspector General of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service shall conduct random audits of the grantees that 
administer activities under the AmeriCorps programs and shall levy 
sanctions in accordance with standard Inspector General audit 
resolution procedures which include, but are not limited to, debarment 
of any grantee (or successor in interest or any entity with 
substantially the same person or persons in control) that has been 
determined to have committed any substantial violation of the 
requirements of the AmeriCorps programs, including any grantee that has 
been determined to have violated the prohibition of using Federal funds 
to lobby the Congress: Provided, That the Inspector General shall 
obtain reimbursements in the amount of any misused funds from any 
grantee that has been determined to have committed any substantial 
violation of the requirements of the AmeriCorps programs.
    Sec. 404. The Corporation for National and Community Service shall 
make any significant changes to program requirements, service delivery 
or policy only through public notice and comment rulemaking. For fiscal 
year 2008, during any grant selection process, an officer or employee 
of the Corporation shall not knowingly disclose any covered grant 
selection information regarding such selection, directly or indirectly, 
to any person other than an officer or employee of the Corporation that 
is authorized by the Corporation to receive such information.
    Sec. 405. Professional Corps programs described in section 
122(a)(8) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 may apply 
to the Corporation for a waiver of application of section 140(c)(2).
    Sec. 406. Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States 
Code, the Corporation may solicit and accept the services of 
organizations and individuals (other than participants) to assist the 
Corporation in carrying out the duties of the Corporation under the 
national service laws: Provided, That an individual who provides 
services under this section shall be subject to the same protections 
and limitations as volunteers under section 196(a) of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990.
    Sec. 407. Organizations operating projects under the AmeriCorps 
Education Awards Program shall do so without regard to the requirements 
of sections 121(d) and (e), 131(e), 132, and 140(a), (d), and (e) of 
the National and Community Service Act of 1990.
    Sec. 408. AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the National 
Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum share requirement 
of 24 percent for the first three years that they receive AmeriCorps 
funding, and thereafter shall meet the overall minimum share 
requirement as provided in section 2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, without regard to the operating costs match requirement in 
section 121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
section 140 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, and 
subject to partial waiver consistent with section 2521.70 of title 45, 
Code of Federal Regulations.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as 
authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall be 
available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 
2010, $420,000,000: Provided, That no funds made available to the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this Act shall be used to pay 
for receptions, parties, or similar forms of entertainment for 
Government officials or employees: Provided further, That none of the 
funds contained in this paragraph shall be available or used to aid or 
support any program or activity from which any person is excluded, or 
is denied benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, 
color, national origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That no 
funds made available to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this 
Act shall be used to apply any political test or qualification in 
selecting, appointing, promoting, or taking any other personnel action 
with respect to officers, agents, and employees of the Corporation: 
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2008, in addition to the amounts 
provided above, $29,700,000 shall be for costs related to digital 
program production, development, and distribution, associated with the 
transition of public broadcasting to digital broadcasting, to be 
awarded as determined by the Corporation in consultation with public 
radio and television licensees or permittees, or their designated 
representatives: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2008, in 
addition to the amounts provided above, $26,750,000 is available 
pursuant to section 396(k)(10) of the Communications Act of 1934 for 
replacement and upgrade of the public radio interconnection system: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this Act, the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-5), or the Departments 
of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-149), shall be used 
to support the Television Future Fund or any similar purpose.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor Management 
Relations Act, 1947, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; for 
expenses necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation Act of 1978; 
and for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out the functions 
vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, Public Law 95-454, 
$44,450,000, including $650,000 to remain available through September 
30, 2009, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management Cooperation 
Act of 1978: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, fees 
charged, up to full-cost recovery, for special training activities and 
other conflict resolution services and technical assistance, including 
those provided to foreign governments and international organizations, 
and for arbitration services shall be credited to and merged with this 
account, and shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That fees for arbitration services shall be available only for 
education, training, and professional development of the agency 
workforce: Provided further, That the Director of the Service is 
authorized to accept and use on behalf of the United States gifts of 
services and real, personal, or other property in the aid of any 
projects or functions within the Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $8,096,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services


     Office of Museum and Library Services: Grants and Administration

    For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 1996 and 
the National Museum of African American History and Culture Act, 
$277,131,000: Provided, That funds may be made available for support 
through inter-agency agreement or grant to commemorative Federal 
commissions that support museum and library activities, in partnership 
with libraries and museums that are eligible for funding under programs 
carried out by the Institute of Museum and Library Services.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $10,748,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds.

        National Commission on Libraries and Information Science


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For close out activities of the National Commission on Libraries 
and Information Science, established by the Act of July 20, 1970 
(Public Law 91-345, as amended), $400,000.

                     National Council on Disability


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, $3,113,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, and other laws, $256,988,000: Provided, That no part of this 
appropriation shall be available to organize or assist in organizing 
agricultural laborers or used in connection with investigations, 
hearings, directives, or orders concerning bargaining units composed of 
agricultural laborers as referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 
5, 1935, and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, 
and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 1938, and 
including in said definition employees engaged in the maintenance and 
operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways when maintained 
or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 95 percent of the 
water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming purposes.

                        National Mediation Board


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by the President, 
$12,992,000, of which $750,000 shall be for arbitrator salaries and 
expenses pursuant to section 153(1).

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $10,696,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board


                      dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $79,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2008 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds the amount 
available for payment of vested dual benefits: Provided, That the total 
amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 approximately equal 
amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal year.


           Federal Payments to the Railroad Retirement Accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2009, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.


                       Limitation on Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board for 
administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act, $103,694,000, to be derived in such amounts 
as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement accounts and 
from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment insurance 
administration fund.


              Limitation on the Office of Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than $7,803,000, to be derived 
from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad unemployment 
insurance account: Provided, That none of the funds made available in 
any other paragraph of this Act may be transferred to the Office; used 
to carry out any such transfer; used to provide any office space, 
equipment, office supplies, communications facilities or services, 
maintenance services, or administrative services for the Office; used 
to pay any salary, benefit, or award for any personnel of the Office; 
used to pay any other operating expense of the Office; or used to 
reimburse the Office for any service provided, or expense incurred, by 
the Office: Provided further, That funds made available under the 
heading in this Act, or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Acts, may be used for any audit, investigation, or review of the 
Medicare Program.

                     Social Security Administration


                 payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 201(m), 217(g), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security 
Act, $28,140,000.


                   Supplemental Security Income Program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$27,014,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, $14,800,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $15,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $9,522,953,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That not 
less than $2,000,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory Board: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances of funds provided under 
this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2008 not needed for fiscal 
year 2008 shall remain available until expended to invest in the Social 
Security Administration information technology and telecommunications 
hardware and software infrastructure, including related equipment and 
non-payroll administrative expenses associated solely with this 
information technology and telecommunications infrastructure: Provided 
further, That reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for 
expenditures for official time for employees of the Social Security 
Administration pursuant to section 7131 of title 5, United States Code, 
and for facilities or support services for labor organizations pursuant 
to policies, regulations, or procedures referred to in section 7135(b) 
of such title shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, with 
interest, from amounts in the general fund not otherwise appropriated, 
as soon as possible after such expenditures are made.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, not less than 
$263,970,000 shall be available for conducting continuing disability 
reviews under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act and for 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act.
    In addition to amounts made available above, and subject to the 
same terms and conditions, $213,000,000, for additional continuing 
disability reviews and redeterminations of eligibility.
    In addition, $135,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such sections in fiscal year 2008 
exceed $135,000,000, the amounts shall be available in fiscal year 2009 
only to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
    In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees collected 
pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security Protection Act 
(Public Law 108-203), which shall remain available until expended.


                       Office of Inspector General

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$27,000,000, together with not to exceed $68,047,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available: Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act. Such transferred balances shall be used for the 
same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they were 
originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for 
the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State 
legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or 
any State legislature.
    Sec. 504. The Secretaries of Labor and Education are authorized to 
make available not to exceed $28,000 and $20,000, respectively, from 
funds available for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, 
respectively, for official reception and representation expenses; the 
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is 
authorized to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for ``Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and expenses''; and the 
Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $5,000 from funds available for ``National Mediation Board, 
Salaries and expenses''.
    Sec. 505. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated in this Act shall be used to carry out any program of 
distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection 
of any illegal drug.
    Sec. 506. When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state--
        (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or project 
    which will be financed with Federal money;
        (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
    program; and
        (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
    project or program that will be financed by non-governmental 
    sources.
    Sec. 507. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none 
of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this 
Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 508. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
        (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest; 
    or
        (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical disorder, 
    physical injury, or physical illness, including a life-endangering 
    physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself, 
    that would, as certified by a physician, place the woman in danger 
    of death unless an abortion is performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be made 
available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State or local 
government, if such agency, program, or government subjects any 
institutional or individual health care entity to discrimination on the 
basis that the health care entity does not provide, pay for, provide 
coverage of, or refer for abortions.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' includes an 
individual physician or other health care professional, a hospital, a 
provider-sponsored organization, a health maintenance organization, a 
health insurance plan, or any other kind of health care facility, 
organization, or plan.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
        (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
    purposes; or
        (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are destroyed, 
    discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury or death 
    greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in utero under 45 
    CFR 46.204(b) and section 498(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 510. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for any activity that promotes the legalization of any drug or 
other substance included in schedule I of the schedules of controlled 
substances established under section 202 of the Controlled Substances 
Act (21 U.S.C. 812) except for normal and recognized executive-
congressional communications.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when there is 
significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to the use of 
such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored clinical 
trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 511. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(b)) providing for, or providing 
for the assignment of, a unique health identifier for an individual 
(except in an individual's capacity as an employer or a health care 
provider), until legislation is enacted specifically approving the 
standard.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
        (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
    States and is subject to the requirement in section 4212(d) of 
    title 38, United States Code, regarding submission of an annual 
    report to the Secretary of Labor concerning employment of certain 
    veterans; and
        (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by that 
    section for the most recent year for which such requirement was 
    applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 513. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds made available by this Act to carry out 
the Library Services and Technology Act may be made available to any 
library covered by paragraph (1) of section 224(f) of such Act, as 
amended by the Children's Internet Protection Act, unless such library 
has made the certifications required by paragraph (4) of such section.
    Sec. 515. None of the funds made available by this Act to carry out 
part D of title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 may be made available to any elementary or secondary school 
covered by paragraph (1) of section 2441(a) of such Act, as amended by 
the Children's Internet Protection Act and the No Child Left Behind 
Act, unless the local educational agency with responsibility for such 
covered school has made the certifications required by paragraph (2) of 
such section.
    Sec. 516. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2008, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that--
        (1) creates new programs;
        (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
        (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
    or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted;
        (4) relocates an office or employees;
        (5) reorganizes or renames offices;
        (6) reorganizes programs or activities; or
        (7) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
    presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming or 
of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, whichever 
occurs earlier.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2008, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that--
        (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
    construction projects), or activities;
        (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
    project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
    approved by Congress; or
        (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
    personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
    activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming or 
of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, whichever 
occurs earlier.
    Sec. 517. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to request that a candidate for appointment to a Federal 
scientific advisory committee disclose the political affiliation or 
voting history of the candidate or the position that the candidate 
holds with respect to political issues not directly related to and 
necessary for the work of the committee involved.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
disseminate scientific information that is deliberately false or 
misleading.
    Sec. 518. Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each department 
and related agency funded through this Act shall submit an operating 
plan that details at the program, project, and activity level any 
funding allocations for fiscal year 2008 that are different than those 
specified in this Act, the accompanying detailed table in the committee 
report, or the fiscal year 2008 budget request.
    Sec. 519. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out the evaluation of the Upward Bound program described in 
the absolute priority for Upward Bound Program participant selection 
and evaluation published by the Department of Education in the Federal 
Register on September 22, 2006 (71 Fed. Reg. 55447 et seq.).
    Sec. 520. None of the funds in this Act may be used to employ 
workers described in section 274A(h)(3) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.
    Sec. 521. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education shall each prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
on the number and amount of contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements exceeding $100,000 in value and awarded by the Department on 
a non-competitive basis during each quarter of fiscal year 2008, but 
not to include grants awarded on a formula basis. Such report shall 
include the name of the contractor or grantee, the amount of funding, 
and the governmental purpose. Such report shall be transmitted to the 
Committees within 30 days after the end of the quarter for which the 
report is submitted.
    Sec. 522. Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Departments, agencies, and commissions funded under this 
Act, shall establish and maintain on the homepages of their Internet 
websites--
        (1) a direct link to the Internet websites of their Offices of 
    Inspectors General; and
        (2) a mechanism on the Offices of Inspectors General website by 
    which individuals may anonymously report cases of waste, fraud, or 
    abuse with respect to those Departments, agencies, and commissions.
    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an amount 
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such amount 
unless the prospective contractor or grantee certifies in writing to 
the agency awarding the contract or grant that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal 
tax returns required during the three years preceding the 
certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for 
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the 
subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has 
been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or 
the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or 
judicial proceeding.
    Sec. 524. Section 1848(l)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act, as 
amended by section 6 of the TMA, Abstinence Education, and QI Programs 
Extension Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-90), is amended by striking 
``$1,350,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,200,000,000, but in no case shall 
expenditures from the Fund in fiscal year 2008 exceed $650,000,000'' in 
the first sentence.
    Sec. 525. Iraqi and Afghan aliens granted special immigrant status 
under section 101(a)(27) of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall 
be eligible for resettlement assistance, entitlement programs, and 
other benefits available to refugees admitted under section 207 of such 
Act for a period not to exceed 6 months.
    Sec. 526. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Commissioner of Social Security or the Social Security 
Administration to pay the compensation of employees of the Social 
Security Administration to administer Social Security benefit payments, 
under any agreement between the United States and Mexico establishing 
totalization arrangements between the social security system 
established by title II of the Social Security Act and the social 
security system of Mexico, which would not otherwise be payable but for 
such agreement.
    Sec. 527. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
expended or obligated by the Commissioner of Social Security, for 
purposes of administering Social Security benefit payments under title 
II of the Social Security Act, to process claims for credit for 
quarters of coverage based on work performed under a social security 
account number that was not the claimant's number which is an offense 
prohibited under section 208 of the Social Security Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2008''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.