[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2937 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 380
104th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2937


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 20, 1996

                                Received

                             April 24, 1996

                          Read the first time

                             April 25, 1996

              Read second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  For the reimbursement of attorney fees and costs incurred by former 
    employees of the White House Travel Office with respect to the 
    termination of their employment in that Office on May 19, 1993.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, from 
amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as are 
necessary to reimburse former employees of the White House Travel 
Office whose employment in that Office was terminated on May 19, 1993, 
for any attorney fees and costs they incurred with respect to that 
termination.
    (b) Verification Required.--The Secretary shall pay an individual 
in full under subsection (a) upon submission by the individual of 
documentation verifying the attorney fees and costs.
    (c) No Inference of Liability.--Liability of the United States 
shall not be inferred from enactment of or payment under this section.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON FILING OF CLAIMS.

    The Secretary of the Treasury shall not pay any claim filed under 
this Act that is filed later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. REDUCTION.

    The amount paid pursuant to this Act to an individual for attorney 
fees and costs described in section 1 shall be reduced by any amount 
received before the date of the enactment of this Act, without 
obligation for repayment by the individual, for payment of such 
attorney fees and costs (including any amount received from the funds 
appropriated for the individual in the matter relating to the ``Office 
of the General Counsel'' under the heading ``Office of the Secretary'' 
in title I of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1994).

SEC. 4. PAYMENT IN FULL SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES.

    Payment under this Act, when accepted by an individual described in 
section 1, shall be in full satisfaction of all claims of, or on behalf 
of, the individual against the United States that arose out of the 
termination of the White House Travel Office employment of that 
individual on May 19, 1993.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 19, 1996.

            Attest:

                                                ROBIN H. CARLE,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 380

104th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 2937

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  For the reimbursement of attorney fees and costs incurred by former 
    employees of the White House Travel Office with respect to the 
    termination of their employment in that Office on May 19, 1993.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 25, 1996

              Read second time and placed on the calendar