Shown Here:
Placed on Calendar Senate (07/10/2019)

[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2740 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 140
116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2740


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 24, 2019

                                Received

                              July 9, 2019

                          Read the first time

                             July 10, 2019

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education, Defense, State, Foreign Operations, and Energy and Water 
Development Appropriations Act, 2020''.

   DIVISION A--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and related agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
Act (referred to in this Act as ``WIOA'') and the National 
Apprenticeship Act, $3,977,615,000, plus reimbursements, shall be 
available. Of the amounts provided:
            (1) for grants to States for adult employment and training 
        activities, youth activities, and dislocated worker employment 
        and training activities, $2,967,360,000 as follows:
                    (A) $900,000,000 for adult employment and training 
                activities, of which $188,000,000 shall be available 
                for the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021, and 
                of which $712,000,000 shall be available for the period 
                October 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021;
                    (B) $964,000,000 for youth activities, which shall 
                be available for the period April 1, 2020 through June 
                30, 2021; and
                    (C) $1,103,360,000 for dislocated worker employment 
                and training activities, of which $243,360,000 shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 
                2021, and of which $860,000,000 shall be available for 
                the period October 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021:
         Provided, That the funds available for allotment to outlying 
        areas to carry out subtitle B of title I of the WIOA shall not 
        be subject to the requirements of section 127(b)(1)(B)(ii) of 
        such Act; and
            (2) for national programs, $1,010,255,000 as follows:
                    (A) $370,859,000 for the dislocated workers 
                assistance national reserve, of which $170,859,000 
                shall be available for the period July 1, 2020 through 
                September 30, 2021, and of which $200,000,000 shall be 
                available for the period October 1, 2020 through 
                September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds provided to 
                carry out section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIOA may be used 
                to provide assistance to a State for statewide or local 
                use in order to address cases where there have been 
                worker dislocations across multiple sectors or across 
                multiple local areas and such workers remain 
                dislocated; coordinate the State workforce development 
                plan with emerging economic development needs; and 
                train such eligible dislocated workers: Provided 
                further, That funds provided to carry out sections 
                168(b) and 169(c) of the WIOA may be used for technical 
                assistance and demonstration projects, respectively, 
                that provide assistance to new entrants in the 
                workforce and incumbent workers: Provided further, That 
                notwithstanding section 168(b) of the WIOA, of the 
                funds provided under this subparagraph, the Secretary 
                of Labor (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') 
                may reserve not more than 7 percent of such funds to 
                provide technical assistance and carry out additional 
                activities related to the transition to the WIOA: 
                Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
                subparagraph, $150,000,000 shall be for training and 
                employment assistance under sections 168(b), 169(c) 
                (notwithstanding the 10 percent limitation in such 
                section) and 170 of the WIOA for the purpose of 
                developing, offering, or improving educational or 
                career training programs at community colleges, defined 
                as public institutions of higher education, as 
                described in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act 
                and at which the associate's degree is primarily the 
                highest degree awarded, with other eligible 
                institutions of higher education, as defined in section 
                101(a) of the Higher Education Act, eligible to 
                participate through consortia, with community colleges 
                as the lead grantee: Provided further, That the 
                Secretary shall follow the requirements for the program 
                in the committee report accompanying this Act: Provided 
                further, That any grant funds used for apprenticeships 
                shall be used to support only apprenticeship programs 
                registered under the National Apprenticeship Act and as 
                referred to in Section 3(7)(B) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act;
                    (B) $55,000,000 for Native American programs under 
                section 166 of the WIOA, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021;
                    (C) $98,896,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
                programs under section 167 of the WIOA, including 
                $91,722,000 for formula grants (of which not less than 
                70 percent shall be for employment and training 
                services), $6,588,000 for migrant and seasonal housing 
                (of which not less than 70 percent shall be for 
                permanent housing), and $586,000 for other 
                discretionary purposes, which shall be available for 
                the period April 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021: 
                Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law or related regulation, the Department of Labor 
                shall take no action limiting the number or proportion 
                of eligible participants receiving related assistance 
                services or discouraging grantees from providing such 
                services;
                    (D) $127,500,000 for YouthBuild activities as 
                described in section 171 of the WIOA, which shall be 
                available for the period April 1, 2020 through June 30, 
                2021;
                    (E) $100,000,000 for ex-offender activities, under 
                the authority of section 169 of the WIOA, which shall 
                be available for the period April 1, 2020 through June 
                30, 2021: Provided, That of this amount, $25,000,000 
                shall be for competitive grants to national and 
                regional intermediaries for activities that prepare 
                young, formerly incarcerated individuals, including 
                those who have dropped out of school or other 
                educational programs, with a priority for projects 
                serving high-crime, high-poverty areas;
                    (F) $8,000,000 for the Workforce Data Quality 
                Initiative, under the authority of section 169 of the 
                WIOA, which shall be available for the period July 1, 
                2020 through June 30, 2021; and
                    (G) $250,000,000, to expand opportunities through 
                apprenticeships only registered under the National 
                Apprenticeship Act and as referred to in section 
                3(7)(B) of the WIOA, to be available to the Secretary 
                to carry out activities through grants, cooperative 
                agreements, contracts and other arrangements, with 
                States and other appropriate entities, which shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 
                2021: Provided further, That of the funds provided to 
                carry out this subparagraph, not less than 20 percent 
                shall be for making competitive contracts, grants, and 
                cooperative agreements to national apprenticeship 
                intermediaries, not less than 20 percent shall be for 
                competitive contracts, grants, and cooperative 
                agreements to local apprenticeship intermediaries, and 
                not less than 50 percent shall be used to fund grants 
                to States.

                               job corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    To carry out subtitle C of title I of the WIOA, including Federal 
administrative expenses, the purchase and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, the construction, alteration, and repairs of buildings and 
other facilities, and the purchase of real property for training 
centers as authorized by the WIOA, $1,868,655,000, plus reimbursements, 
as follows:
            (1) $1,603,325,000 for Job Corps Operations, which shall be 
        available for the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021;
            (2) $233,000,000 for construction, rehabilitation and 
        acquisition of Job Corps Centers, which shall be available for 
        the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2023, and which may 
        include the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of major items 
        of equipment: Provided, That the Secretary may transfer up to 
        15 percent of such funds to meet the operational needs of such 
        centers or to achieve administrative efficiencies: Provided 
        further, That any funds transferred pursuant to the preceding 
        provision shall not be available for obligation after June 30, 
        2021: Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at 
        least 15 days in advance of any transfer; and
            (3) $32,330,000 for necessary expenses of Job Corps, which 
        shall be available for obligation for the period October 1, 
        2019 through September 30, 2020:
 Provided, That no funds from any other appropriation shall be used to 
provide meal services at or for Job Corps centers.

            community service employment for older americans

    To carry out title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (referred 
to in this Act as ``OAA''), $463,800,000, which shall be available for 
the period April 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021, and may be recaptured 
and reobligated in accordance with section 517(c) of the OAA.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during fiscal year 2020 of trade adjustment benefit 
payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and section 246 of that Act; and for 
training, employment and case management services, allowances for job 
search and relocation, and related State administrative expenses under 
part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, and including benefit payments, allowances, training, employment 
and case management services, and related State administration provided 
pursuant to section 231(a) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension 
Act of 2011 and section 405(a) of the Trade Preferences Extension Act 
of 2015, $680,000,000 together with such amounts as may be necessary to 
be charged to the subsequent appropriation for payments for any period 
subsequent to September 15, 2020: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 502 of this Act, any part of the appropriation provided under 
this heading may remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year pursuant to the authorities of section 245(c) of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2317(c)).

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $84,066,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,381,695,000 which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the 
Trust Fund''), of which:
            (1) $2,618,230,000 from the Trust Fund is for grants to 
        States for the administration of State unemployment insurance 
        laws as authorized under title III of the Social Security Act 
        (including not less than $175,000,000 to carry out reemployment 
        services and eligibility assessments under section 306 of such 
        Act, any claimants of regular compensation, as defined in such 
        section, including those who are profiled as most likely to 
        exhaust their benefits, may be eligible for such services and 
        assessments: Provided, That of such amount, $117,000,000 is 
        specified for grants under section 306 of the Social Security 
        Act and is provided to meet the terms of section 
        251(b)(2)(E)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
        Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $58,000,000 is additional 
        new budget authority specified for purposes of section 
        251(b)(2)(E)(i)(II) of such Act; and $9,000,000 for continued 
        support of the Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center of 
        Excellence), the administration of unemployment insurance for 
        Federal employees and for ex-service members as authorized 
        under 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and the administration of trade 
        readjustment allowances, reemployment trade adjustment 
        assistance, and alternative trade adjustment assistance under 
        the Trade Act of 1974 and under section 231(a) of the Trade 
        Adjustment Assistance Extension Act of 2011 and section 405(a) 
        of the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, and shall be 
        available for obligation by the States through December 31, 
        2020, except that funds used for automation shall be available 
        for Federal obligation through December 31, 2020, and for State 
        obligation through September 30, 2022, or, if the automation is 
        being carried out through consortia of States, for State 
        obligation through September 30, 2026, and for expenditure 
        through September 30, 2027, and funds for competitive grants 
        awarded to States for improved operations and to conduct in-
        person reemployment and eligibility assessments and 
        unemployment insurance improper payment reviews and provide 
        reemployment services and referrals to training, as 
        appropriate, shall be available for Federal obligation through 
        December 31, 2020, and for obligation by the States through 
        September 30, 2022, and funds for the Unemployment Insurance 
        Integrity Center of Excellence shall be available for 
        obligation by the State through September 30, 2021, and funds 
        used for unemployment insurance workloads experienced through 
        September 30, 2020 shall be available for Federal obligation 
        through December 31, 2020: Provided further, That of the funds 
        available under this paragraph for grants to States for 
        administering claims under State unemployment compensation laws 
        that remain unallocated at the end of the fiscal year as a 
        result of state workloads in administering such claims not 
        supporting the allocation, the Secretary shall use such funds 
        (other than funds specified for other activities in this 
        paragraph) for supplemental grant funding opportunities to 
        States in order to improve operations and modernize State 
        Unemployment Insurance systems and such funds shall remain 
        available for Federal obligation through December 31, 2020;
            (2) $12,000,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities necessary to support the administration of the 
        Federal-State unemployment insurance system;
            (3) $658,587,000 from the Trust Fund, together with 
        $21,413,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury, is for 
        grants to States in accordance with section 6 of the Wagner-
        Peyser Act, and shall be available for Federal obligation for 
        the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021;
            (4) $22,318,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities of the Employment Service, including administration 
        of the work opportunity tax credit under section 51 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the provision of technical 
        assistance and staff training under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
            (5) $70,560,000 from the Trust Fund is for the 
        administration of foreign labor certifications and related 
        activities under the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
        related laws, of which $56,278,000 shall be available for the 
        Federal administration of such activities, and $14,282,000 
        shall be available for grants to States for the administration 
        of such activities; and
            (6) $62,653,000 from the General Fund is to provide 
        workforce information, national electronic tools, and one-stop 
        system building under the Wagner-Peyser Act and shall be 
        available for Federal obligation for the period July 1, 2020 
        through June 30, 2021:
 Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2020 is projected by the 
Department of Labor to exceed 1,758,000, an additional $28,600,000 from 
the Trust Fund shall be available for obligation for every 100,000 
increase in the AWIU level (including a pro rata amount for any 
increment less than 100,000) to carry out title III of the Social 
Security Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act 
that are allotted to a State to carry out activities under title III of 
the Social Security Act may be used by such State to assist other 
States in carrying out activities under such title III if the other 
States include areas that have suffered a major disaster declared by 
the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act: Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
funds appropriated for grants to States under title III of the Social 
Security Act to make payments on behalf of States for the use of the 
National Directory of New Hires under section 453(j)(8) of such Act: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may use funds appropriated for 
grants to States under title III of the Social Security Act to make 
payments on behalf of States to the entity operating the State 
Information Data Exchange System: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated in this Act which are used to establish a national one-
stop career center system, or which are used to support the national 
activities of the Federal-State unemployment insurance, employment 
service, or immigration programs, may be obligated in contracts, 
grants, or agreements with States and non-State entities: Provided 
further, That States awarded competitive grants for improved operations 
under title III of the Social Security Act, or awarded grants to 
support the national activities of the Federal-State unemployment 
insurance system, may award subgrants to other States and non-State 
entities under such grants, subject to the conditions applicable to the 
grants: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act for 
activities authorized under title III of the Social Security Act and 
the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used by States to fund integrated 
Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service automation efforts, 
notwithstanding cost allocation principles prescribed under the final 
rule entitled ``Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, 
and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards'' at part 200 of title 2, 
Code of Federal Regulations: Provided further, That the Secretary, at 
the request of a State participating in a consortium with other States, 
may reallot funds allotted to such State under title III of the Social 
Security Act to other States participating in the consortium or to the 
entity operating the Unemployment Insurance Information Technology 
Support Center in order to carry out activities that benefit the 
administration of the unemployment compensation law of the State making 
the request: Provided further, That the Secretary may collect fees for 
the costs associated with additional data collection, analyses, and 
reporting services relating to the National Agricultural Workers Survey 
requested by State and local governments, public and private 
institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations and may 
utilize such sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, 
for the National Agricultural Workers Survey infrastructure, 
methodology, and data to meet the information collection and reporting 
needs of such entities, which shall be credited to this appropriation 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2021, for such purposes.

        advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, and to the 
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 9501(c)(1) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and for nonrepayable advances to the 
revolving fund established by section 901(e) of the Social Security 
Act, to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8509, and 
to the ``Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances'' account, such 
sums as may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation 
through September 30, 2021.

                         program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$108,674,000, together with not to exceed $49,982,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
Administration, $183,155,000, of which up to $3,000,000 shall be made 
available through September 30, 2021, for the procurement of expert 
witnesses for enforcement litigation.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (``Corporation'') is 
authorized to make such expenditures, including financial assistance 
authorized by subtitle E of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to the Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
provided by 31 U.S.C. 9104, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program, including associated administrative expenses, through 
September 30, 2020, for the Corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available to the Corporation for fiscal year 2020 shall be 
available for obligations for administrative expenses in excess of 
$452,858,000: Provided further, That to the extent that the number of 
new plan participants in plans terminated by the Corporation exceeds 
100,000 in fiscal year 2020, an amount not to exceed an additional 
$9,200,000 shall remain available until expended for obligations for 
administrative expenses for every 20,000 additional terminated 
participants: Provided further, That obligations in excess of the 
amounts provided for administrative expenses in this paragraph may be 
incurred and shall remain available until expended for obligation for 
unforeseen and extraordinary pre-termination or termination expenses or 
extraordinary multiemployer program related expenses after approval by 
the Office of Management and Budget and notification of the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: 
Provided further, That to the extent the Corporation's expenses exceed 
$250,000 for the provision of credit or identity monitoring to affected 
individuals upon suffering a security incident or privacy breach, an 
additional amount shall remain available until expended for obligations 
for such expenses, not to exceed an additional $100 per affected 
individual.

                         Wage and Hour Division

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Wage and Hour Division, including 
reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their employees 
for inspection services rendered, $298,131,000.

                  Office of Labor-Management Standards

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Labor-Management 
Standards, $40,187,000 (reduced by $4,000,000).

             Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance Programs, $120,000,000.

                Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Workers' Compensation 
Programs, $118,609,000, together with $2,173,000 which may be expended 
from the Special Fund in accordance with sections 39(c), 44(d), and 
44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

                            special benefits

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by 5 U.S.C. 81; continuation of benefits as 
provided for under the heading ``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal 
Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation 
Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; section 5(f) of the War Claims Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 2012); obligations incurred under the War Hazards 
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and 50 percent of the 
additional compensation and benefits required by section 10(h) of the 
Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, $234,600,000, together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
year appropriation for the payment of compensation and other benefits 
for any period subsequent to August 15 of the current year, for deposit 
into and to assume the attributes of the Employees' Compensation Fund 
established under 5 U.S.C. 8147(a): Provided, That amounts appropriated 
may be used under 5 U.S.C. 8104 by the Secretary to reimburse an 
employer, who is not the employer at the time of injury, for portions 
of the salary of a re-employed, disabled beneficiary: Provided further, 
That balances of reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 2019, 
shall remain available until expended for the payment of compensation, 
benefits, and expenses: Provided further, That in addition there shall 
be transferred to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from 
any other corporation or instrumentality required under 5 U.S.C. 
8147(c) to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost of 
administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost of 
administration for employees of such fair share entities through 
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That of those funds transferred 
to this account from the fair share entities to pay the cost of 
administration of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, $74,777,000 
shall be made available to the Secretary as follows:
            (1) For enhancement and maintenance of automated data 
        processing systems operations and telecommunications systems, 
        $24,540,000;
            (2) For automated workload processing operations, including 
        document imaging, centralized mail intake, and medical bill 
        processing, $22,968,000;
            (3) For periodic roll disability management and medical 
        review, $25,535,000;
            (4) For program integrity, $1,734,000; and
            (5) The remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
        miscellaneous receipts:
 Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any person 
filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 5 U.S.C. 81, or 
the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, provide as part of 
such notice and claim, such identifying information (including Social 
Security account number) as such regulations may prescribe.

               special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, $20,970,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, for costs incurred 
in the current fiscal year, such amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2021, $14,000,000, to remain available until expended.

    administrative expenses, energy employees occupational illness 
                           compensation fund

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $59,846,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary may require that 
any person filing a claim for benefits under the Act provide as part of 
such claim such identifying information (including Social Security 
account number) as may be prescribed.

                    black lung disability trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Such sums as may be necessary from the Black Lung Disability Trust 
Fund (the ``Fund''), to remain available until expended, for payment of 
all benefits authorized by section 9501(d)(1), (2), (6), and (7) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and repayment of, and payment of 
interest on advances, as authorized by section 9501(d)(4) of that Act. 
In addition, the following amounts may be expended from the Fund for 
fiscal year 2020 for expenses of operation and administration of the 
Black Lung Benefits program, as authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not 
to exceed $38,246,000 for transfer to the Office of Workers' 
Compensation Programs, ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed 
$32,844,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries and 
Expenses''; not to exceed $330,000 for transfer to Departmental 
Management, ``Office of Inspector General''; and not to exceed $356,000 
for payments into miscellaneous receipts for the expenses of the 
Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $660,908,000, including not to exceed $123,233,000 
which shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (the ``Act''), 
which grants shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State 
occupational safety and health programs required to be incurred under 
plans approved by the Secretary under section 18 of the Act; and, in 
addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration may retain up to $499,000 per fiscal year of 
training institute course tuition and fees, otherwise authorized by law 
to be collected, and may utilize such sums for occupational safety and 
health training and education: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, the Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, to collect and retain fees for services provided to 
Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, 
in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer 
national and international laboratory recognition programs that ensure 
the safety of equipment and products used by workers in the workplace: 
Provided further, That $12,690,000 shall be available for Susan Harwood 
training grants, of which not less than $4,500,000 is for Susan Harwood 
Training Capacity Building Developmental grants, as described in 
Funding Opportunity Number SHTG-FY-16-02 (referenced in the notice of 
availability of funds published in the Federal Register on May 3, 2016 
(81 Fed. Reg. 30568)) for program activities starting not later than 
September 30, 2020 and lasting for a period of 12 months: Provided 
further, That not more than $3,500,000 shall be for Voluntary 
Protection Programs.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $417,290,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, including up to 
$2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery activities and not less than 
$10,537,000 for State assistance grants: Provided, That notwithstanding 
31 U.S.C. 3302, not to exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National 
Mine Health and Safety Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale 
of training materials, otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to 
be available for mine safety and health education and training 
activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Mine Safety and Health Administration is authorized to collect and 
retain up to $2,499,000 from fees collected for the approval and 
certification of equipment, materials, and explosives for use in mines, 
and may utilize such sums for such activities: Provided further, That 
the Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, and 
other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, or 
private: Provided further, That the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration is authorized to promote health and safety education and 
training in the mining community through cooperative programs with 
States, industry, and safety associations: Provided further, That the 
Secretary is authorized to recognize the Joseph A. Holmes Safety 
Association as a principal safety association and, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, may provide funds and, with or without 
reimbursement, personnel, including service of Mine Safety and Health 
Administration officials as officers in local chapters or in the 
national organization: Provided further, That any funds available to 
the Department of Labor may be used, with the approval of the 
Secretary, to provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival 
operations in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $600,800,000 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $1) 
(reduced by $1), together with not to exceed $65,000,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.
    In addition, $10,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2024, for costs associated with the physical move of the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics' headquarters, including replication of space, 
furniture, fixtures, equipment, and related costs, as well as 
relocation of the data center to a shared facility.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Disability Employment 
Policy to provide leadership, develop policy and initiatives, and award 
grants furthering the objective of eliminating barriers to the training 
and employment of people with disabilities, $38,500,000.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three passenger motor vehicles, $382,631,000, together with not 
to exceed $308,000, which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund: Provided, That 
$89,825,000 for the Bureau of International Labor Affairs shall be 
available for obligation through December 31, 2020: Provided further, 
That funds available to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs may 
be used to administer or operate international labor activities, 
bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, and microfinance 
programs, by or through contracts, grants, subgrants and other 
arrangements: Provided further, That not more than $53,825,000 shall be 
for programs to combat exploitative child labor internationally and not 
less than $36,000,000 shall be used to implement model programs that 
address worker rights issues through technical assistance in countries 
with which the United States has free trade agreements or trade 
preference programs: Provided further, That $8,040,000 shall be used 
for program evaluation and shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2021: Provided further, That funds available for program 
evaluation may be used to administer grants for the purpose of 
evaluation: Provided further, That grants made for the purpose of 
evaluation shall be awarded through fair and open competition: Provided 
further, That funds available for program evaluation may be transferred 
to any other appropriate account in the Department for such purpose: 
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer: Provided further, That the funds available to the 
Women's Bureau may be used for grants to serve and promote the 
interests of women in the workforce: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available to the Women's Bureau, not less than $4,994,000 
shall be used for grants authorized by the Women in Apprenticeship and 
Nontraditional Occupations Act.

                    veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $256,341,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of chapters 41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United 
States Code, of which:
            (1) $180,000,000 is for Jobs for Veterans State grants 
        under 38 U.S.C. 4102A(b)(5) to support disabled veterans' 
        outreach program specialists under section 4103A of such title 
        and local veterans' employment representatives under section 
        4104(b) of such title, and for the expenses described in 
        section 4102A(b)(5)(C), which shall be available for obligation 
        by the States through December 31, 2020, and not to exceed 3 
        percent for the necessary Federal expenditures for data systems 
        and contract support to allow for the tracking of participant 
        and performance information: Provided, That, in addition, such 
        funds may be used to support such specialists and 
        representatives in the provision of services to transitioning 
        members of the Armed Forces who have participated in the 
        Transition Assistance Program and have been identified as in 
        need of intensive services, to members of the Armed Forces who 
        are wounded, ill, or injured and receiving treatment in 
        military treatment facilities or warrior transition units, and 
        to the spouses or other family caregivers of such wounded, ill, 
        or injured members;
            (2) $29,379,000 is for carrying out the Transition 
        Assistance Program under 38 U.S.C. 4113 and 10 U.S.C. 1144;
            (3) $43,548,000 is for Federal administration of chapters 
        41, 42, and 43 of title 38, and sections 2021, 2021A and 2023 
        of title 38, United States Code: Provided, That, up to $500,000 
        may be used to carry out the Hire VETS Act (division O of 
        Public Law 115-31); and
            (4) $3,414,000 is for the National Veterans' Employment and 
        Training Services Institute under 38 U.S.C. 4109:
 Provided, That the Secretary may reallocate among the appropriations 
provided under paragraphs (1) through (4) above an amount not to exceed 
3 percent of the appropriation from which such reallocation is made.
    In addition, from the General Fund of the Treasury, $60,000,000 is 
for carrying out programs to assist homeless veterans and veterans at 
risk of homelessness who are transitioning from certain institutions 
under sections 2021, 2021A, and 2023 of title 38, United States Code: 
Provided, That notwithstanding subsections (c)(3) and (d) of section 
2023, the Secretary may award grants through September 30, 2020, to 
provide services under such section: Provided further, That services 
provided under sections 2021 or under 2021A may include, in addition to 
services to homeless veterans described in section 2002(a)(1), services 
to veterans who were homeless at some point within the 60 days prior to 
program entry or veterans who are at risk of homelessness within the 
next 60 days, and that services provided under section 2023 may 
include, in addition to services to the individuals described in 
subsection (e) of such section, services to veterans recently released 
from incarceration who are at risk of homelessness: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding paragraph (3) under this heading, funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be used for data systems and 
contract support to allow for the tracking of participant and 
performance information: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
sections 2021(e)(2) and 2021A(f)(2) of title 38, United States Code, 
such funds shall be available for expenditure pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1553.
    In addition, fees may be assessed and deposited in the HIRE Vets 
Medallion Award Fund pursuant to section 5(b) of the HIRE Vets Act, and 
such amounts shall be available to the Secretary to carry out the HIRE 
Vets Medallion Award Program, as authorized by such Act, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such sums shall be in 
addition to any other funds available for such purposes, including 
funds available under paragraph (3) of this heading: Provided further, 
That section 2(d) of division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2017 (Public Law 115-31; 38 U.S.C. 4100 note) shall not apply.

                  information technology modernization

    For necessary expenses for Department of Labor centralized 
infrastructure technology investment activities related to support 
systems and modernization, $37,000,000, which shall be available 
through September 30, 2021.

                      office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$90,461,000, together with not to exceed $5,660,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the salary and bonuses of an individual, 
either as direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate 
in excess of Executive Level II.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between a program, 
project, or activity, but no such program, project, or activity shall 
be increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, 
That the transfer authority granted by this section shall be available 
only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used to create any new 
program or to fund any project or activity for which no funds are 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 103.  In accordance with Executive Order No. 13126, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
shall be obligated or expended for the procurement of goods mined, 
produced, manufactured, or harvested or services rendered, in whole or 
in part, by forced or indentured child labor in industries and host 
countries already identified by the United States Department of Labor 
prior to enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available to the Department of Labor for grants under 
section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness and Workforce 
Improvement Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2916a) may be used for any purpose 
other than competitive grants for training individuals who are older 
than 16 years of age and are not currently enrolled in school within a 
local educational agency in the occupations and industries for which 
employers are using H-1B visas to hire foreign workers, and the related 
activities necessary to support such training.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' shall be used by a 
recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses 
of an individual, either as direct costs or indirect costs, at a rate 
in excess of Executive Level II. This limitation shall not apply to 
vendors providing goods and services as defined in Office of Management 
and Budget Circular A-133. Where States are recipients of such funds, 
States may establish a lower limit for salaries and bonuses of those 
receiving salaries and bonuses from subrecipients of such funds, taking 
into account factors including the relative cost-of-living in the 
State, the compensation levels for comparable State or local government 
employees, and the size of the organizations that administer Federal 
programs involved including Employment and Training Administration 
programs.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 106. (a) Notwithstanding section 102, the Secretary may 
transfer funds made available to the Employment and Training 
Administration by this Act, either directly or through a set-aside, for 
technical assistance services to grantees to ``Program Administration'' 
when it is determined that those services will be more efficiently 
performed by Federal employees: Provided, That this section shall not 
apply to section 171 of the WIOA.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 102, the Secretary may transfer not 
more than 0.5 percent of each discretionary appropriation made 
available to the Employment and Training Administration by this Act to 
``Program Administration'' in order to carry out program integrity 
activities relating to any of the programs or activities that are 
funded under any such discretionary appropriations: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 102 and the preceding proviso, the Secretary 
may transfer not more than 0.5 percent of funds made available in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the ``Office of Job Corps'' account to 
paragraph (3) of such account to carry out program integrity activities 
related to the Job Corps program: Provided further, That funds 
transferred under the authority provided by this subsection shall be 
available for obligation through September 30, 2021.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 107. (a) The Secretary may reserve not more than 0.75 percent 
from each appropriation made available in this Act identified in 
subsection (b) in order to carry out evaluations of any of the programs 
or activities that are funded under such accounts. Any funds reserved 
under this section shall be transferred to ``Departmental Management'' 
for use by the Office of the Chief Evaluation Officer within the 
Department of Labor, and shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That such funds shall only be available 
if the Chief Evaluation Officer of the Department of Labor submits a 
plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate describing the evaluations to be carried 
out 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are: ``Training and 
Employment Services'', ``Job Corps'', ``Community Service Employment 
for Older Americans'', ``State Unemployment Insurance and Employment 
Service Operations'', ``Employee Benefits Security Administration'', 
``Office of Workers' Compensation Programs'', ``Wage and Hour 
Division'', ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs'', 
``Office of Labor Management Standards'', ``Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration'', ``Mine Safety and Health Administration'', 
``Office of Disability Employment Policy'', funding made available to 
the ``Bureau of International Labor Affairs'' and ``Women's Bureau'' 
within the ``Departmental Management, Salaries and Expenses'' account, 
and ``Veterans Employment and Training''.
    Sec. 108.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may furnish through grants, cooperative agreements, 
contracts, and other arrangements, up to $2,000,000 of excess personal 
property, at a value determined by the Secretary, to apprenticeship 
programs for the purpose of training apprentices in those programs.
    Sec. 109.  Funds made available in prior Acts under the heading 
``Department of Labor--Employment and Training Administration--State 
Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service Operations'' for fiscal 
years 2015 through 2019 for automation acquisitions that are being 
carried out through consortia of States shall be available for 
expenditure for 6 fiscal years after the final fiscal year that such 
funds are available to incur new obligations.
    Sec. 110. (a) The Act entitled ``An Act to create a Department of 
Labor'', approved March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 736, chapter 141) shall be 
applied as if the following text is part of such Act:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Labor is authorized to employ 
law enforcement officers or special agents to--
            ``(1) provide protection for the Secretary of Labor during 
        the workday of the Secretary and during any activity that is 
        preliminary or postliminary to the performance of official 
        duties by the Secretary;
            ``(2) provide protection, incidental to the protection 
        provided to the Secretary, to a member of the immediate family 
        of the Secretary who is participating in an activity or event 
        relating to the official duties of the Secretary;
            ``(3) provide continuous protection to the Secretary 
        (including during periods not described in paragraph (1)) and 
        to the members of the immediate family of the Secretary if 
        there is a unique and articulable threat of physical harm, in 
        accordance with guidelines established by the Secretary; and
            ``(4) provide protection to the Deputy Secretary of Labor 
        or another senior officer representing the Secretary of Labor 
        at a public event if there is a unique and articulable threat 
        of physical harm, in accordance with guidelines established by 
        the Secretary.
    ``(b) Authorities.--The Secretary of Labor may authorize a law 
enforcement officer or special agent employed under subsection (a), for 
the purpose of performing the duties authorized under subsection (a), 
to--
            ``(1) carry firearms;
            ``(2) make arrests without a warrant for any offense 
        against the United States committed in the presence of such 
        officer or special agent;
            ``(3) perform protective intelligence work, including 
        identifying and mitigating potential threats and conducting 
        advance work to review security matters relating to sites and 
        events;
            ``(4) coordinate with local law enforcement agencies; and
            ``(5) initiate criminal and other investigations into 
        potential threats to the security of the Secretary, in 
        coordination with the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Labor.
    ``(c) Compliance With Guidelines.--A law enforcement officer or 
special agent employed under subsection (a) shall exercise any 
authority provided under this section in accordance with any--
            ``(1) guidelines issued by the Attorney General; and
            ``(2) guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of Labor.''.
    (b) This section shall be effective on the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    Sec. 111.  The Secretary is authorized to dispose of or divest, by 
any means the Secretary determines appropriate, including an agreement 
or partnership to construct a new Job Corps center, all or a portion of 
the real property on which the Treasure Island Job Corps Center is 
situated. Any sale or other disposition will not be subject to any 
requirement of any Federal law or regulation relating to the 
disposition of Federal real property, including but not limited to 
subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 40 of the United States Code and 
subchapter V of chapter 119 of title 42 of the United States Code. The 
net proceeds of such a sale shall be transferred to the Secretary, 
which shall be available until expended to carry out the Job Corps 
Program on Treasure Island.
    Sec. 112.  Notwithstanding the Federal Assets Sale and Transfer Act 
of 2016 (Public Law 114-287), the proceeds from the sale of any Job 
Corps facility under such Act shall be transferred to the Secretary 
pursuant to section 158(g) of the WIOA.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2020''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                          primary health care

    For carrying out titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
(referred to in this Act as the ``PHS Act'') with respect to primary 
health care and the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, 
$1,676,522,000 (increased by $5,000,000): Provided, That no more than 
$1,000,000 shall be available until expended for carrying out the 
provisions of section 224(o) of the PHS Act: Provided further, That no 
more than $120,000,000 shall be available until expended for carrying 
out subsections (g) through (n) and (q) of section 224 of the PHS Act, 
and for expenses incurred by the Department of Health and Human 
Services (referred to in this Act as ``HHS'') pertaining to 
administrative claims made under such law.

                            health workforce

    For carrying out titles III, VII, and VIII of the PHS Act with 
respect to the health workforce, sections 1128E and 1921 of the Social 
Security Act, and the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 
$1,244,942,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1) (increased by 
$5,000,000): Provided, That sections 751(j)(2) and 762(k) of the PHS 
Act and the proportional funding amounts in paragraphs (1) through (4) 
of section 756(f) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds made 
available under this heading: Provided further, That for any program 
operating under section 751 of the PHS Act on or before January 1, 
2009, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this 
title as the ``Secretary'') may hereafter waive any of the requirements 
contained in sections 751(d)(2)(A) and 751(d)(2)(B) of such Act for the 
full project period of a grant under such section: Provided further, 
That no funds shall be available for section 340G-1 of the PHS Act: 
Provided further, That fees collected for the disclosure of information 
under section 427(b) of the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 
and sections 1128E(d)(2) and 1921 of the Social Security Act shall be 
sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the programs 
authorized by such sections and shall remain available until expended 
for the National Practitioner Data Bank: Provided further, That funds 
transferred to this account to carry out section 846 and subpart 3 of 
part D of title III of the PHS Act may be used to make prior year 
adjustments to awards made under such section and subpart: Provided 
further, That $120,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the purposes of providing primary health services, assigning National 
Health Service Corps (``NHSC'') members to expand the delivery of 
substance use disorder treatment services, notwithstanding the 
assignment priorities and limitations under sections 333(a)(1)(D), 
333(b), and 333A(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the PHS Act, and making payments under 
the NHSC Loan Repayment Program under section 338B of such Act:  
Provided further, That, within the amount made available in the 
previous proviso, $15,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the purposes of making payments under the NHSC Loan Repayment Program 
under section 338B of the PHS Act to individuals participating in such 
program who provide primary health services in Indian Health Service 
facilities, Tribally-Operated 638 Health Programs, and Urban Indian 
Health Programs (as those terms are defined by the Secretary), 
notwithstanding the assignment priorities and limitations under section 
333(b) of such Act: Provided further, That for purposes of the previous 
two provisos, section 331(a)(3)(D) of the PHS Act shall be applied as 
if the term ``primary health services'' includes clinical substance use 
disorder treatment services, including those provided by masters level, 
licensed substance use disorder treatment counselors: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $20,000,000 shall 
be available to make grants to establish or expand optional community-
based nurse practitioner fellowship programs that are accredited or in 
the accreditation process, with a preference for those in Federally 
Qualified Health Centers, for practicing postgraduate nurse 
practitioners in primary care or behavioral health.
    Of the funds made available under this heading, $40,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for grants to public institutions of 
higher education to expand or support graduate education for physicians 
provided by such institutions: Provided, That, in awarding such grants, 
the Secretary shall give priority to public institutions of higher 
education located in States with a projected primary care provider 
shortage in 2025, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, 
That grants so awarded are limited to such public institutions of 
higher education in States in the top quintile of States with a 
projected primary care provider shortage in 2025, as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That the minimum amount of a grant so 
awarded to such an institution shall be not less than $1,000,000 per 
year: Provided further, That such a grant may be awarded for a period 
not to exceed 5 years: Provided further, That such a grant awarded with 
respect to a year to such an institution shall be subject to a matching 
requirement of non-Federal funds in an amount that is not less than 10 
percent of the total amount of Federal funds provided in the grant to 
such institution with respect to such year.

                       maternal and child health

    For carrying out titles III, XI, XII, and XIX of the PHS Act with 
respect to maternal and child health, title V of the Social Security 
Act, $972,751,000 (increased by $7,000,000): Provided, That 
notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 502(b)(1) of the Social Security 
Act, not more than $119,593,000 (increased by $7,000,000) shall be 
available for carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act and $10,276,000 
shall be available for projects described in subparagraphs (A) through 
(F) of section 501(a)(3) of such Act.

                      ryan white hiv/aids program

    For carrying out title XXVI of the PHS Act with respect to the Ryan 
White HIV/AIDS program, $2,435,157,000, of which $2,009,200,000 shall 
remain available to the Secretary through September 30, 2022, for parts 
A and B of title XXVI of the PHS Act, and of which not less than 
$912,017,000 shall be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs under the 
authority of section 2616 or 311(c) of such Act: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $175,000,000 shall be for the 
Minority AIDS Initiative under section 2693 of such Act, of which 
$56,664,000 shall be allocated under subsection (b)(2)(A) of such 
section and $74,376,000 shall be allocated under subsection (b)(2)(C) 
of such section: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $70,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available to the Secretary for carrying out a program of 
grants and contracts under title XXVI or section 311(c) of such Act 
focused on ending the nationwide HIV/AIDS epidemic, with any grants 
issued under such section 311(c) administered in conjunction with title 
XXVI of the PHS Act, including the limitation on administrative 
expenses.

                          health care systems

    For carrying out titles III and XII of the PHS Act with respect to 
health care systems, and the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 
2005, $123,693,000, of which $122,000 shall be available until expended 
for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease 
Center.

                              rural health

    For carrying out titles III and IV of the PHS Act with respect to 
rural health, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety 
Act of 1969, and sections 711 and 1820 of the Social Security Act, 
$317,794,000 (increased by $1,000,000), of which $59,000,000 from 
general revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social 
Security Act, shall be available for carrying out the Medicare rural 
hospital flexibility grants program: Provided, That of the funds made 
available under this heading for Medicare rural hospital flexibility 
grants, $19,942,000 shall be available for the Small Rural Hospital 
Improvement Grant Program for quality improvement and adoption of 
health information technology and up to $1,000,000 shall be to carry 
out section 1820(g)(6) of the Social Security Act, with funds provided 
for grants under section 1820(g)(6) available for the purchase and 
implementation of telehealth services, including pilots and 
demonstrations on the use of electronic health records to coordinate 
rural veterans care between rural providers and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs electronic health record system: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 338J(k) of the PHS Act, $12,500,000 shall 
be available for State Offices of Rural Health: Provided further, That 
$10,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2022, to 
support the Rural Residency Development Program.

                            family planning

    For carrying out the program under title X of the PHS Act to 
provide for voluntary family planning projects, $400,000,000: Provided, 
That the Secretary shall carry out section 1001 of the PHS Act solely 
in accordance with any regulations or other conditions or instructions 
established by the Secretary pursuant to the authority under section 
1006 of the PHS Act that applied as of January 18, 2017, to grants and 
contracts awarded under section 1001 of the PHS Act: Provided further, 
That amounts provided to said projects under such title shall not be 
expended for abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be 
nondirective, and that such amounts shall not be expended for any 
activity (including the publication or distribution of literature) that 
in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any 
legislative proposal or candidate for public office.

                           program management

    For program support in the Health Resources and Services 
Administration, $155,250,000 (reduced by $7,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000): 
Provided, That funds made available under this heading may be used to 
supplement program support funding provided under the headings 
``Primary Health Care'', ``Health Workforce'', ``Maternal and Child 
Health'', ``Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program'', ``Health Care Systems'', and 
``Rural Health''.

             vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund (the ``Trust Fund''), such sums as may be necessary for claims 
associated with vaccine-related injury or death with respect to 
vaccines administered after September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 
of title XXI of the PHS Act, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed 
$11,200,000 shall be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 immunization and respiratory diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXI, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect 
to immunization and respiratory diseases, $499,758,000.

     hiv/aids, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
                        tuberculosis prevention

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXIII of the PHS Act 
with respect to HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted 
diseases, and tuberculosis prevention, $1,335,197,000 (increased by 
$15,000,000).

               emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII, and section 2821 of the 
PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect to 
emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases, $592,622,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000):  Provided, That of the funds 
made available under this heading to pay for the transportation, 
medical care, treatment, and other related costs of persons quarantined 
or isolated under Federal or State quarantine law, up to $1,000,000 
shall remain available until expended.

            chronic disease prevention and health promotion

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, XV, XVII, and XIX of the PHS 
Act with respect to chronic disease prevention and health promotion, 
$1,080,121,000 (increased by $500,000) (increased by $3,000,000): 
Provided, That funds made available under this heading may be available 
for making grants under section 1509 of the PHS Act for not less than 
21 States, tribes, or tribal organizations: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be 
available to continue and expand community specific extension and 
outreach programs to combat obesity in counties with the highest levels 
of obesity: Provided further, That the proportional funding 
requirements under section 1503(a) of the PHS Act shall not apply to 
funds made available under this heading.

   birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and 
health, $161,560,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000).

                   public health scientific services

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to health statistics, surveillance, health informatics, and 
workforce development, $603,897,000.

                          environmental health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health, $226,350,000.

                     injury prevention and control

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to injury prevention and control, $697,559,000 (increased by 
$4,500,000) (increased by $5,570,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000), of which 
$25,000,000 is provided for firearm injury and mortality prevention 
research.

         national institute for occupational safety and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act, sections 
101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Act, section 13 of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency 
Response Act, and sections 20, 21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act, with respect to occupational safety and health, 
$346,300,000 (increased by $900,000).

       energy employees occupational illness compensation program

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $55,358,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That this amount shall be available 
consistent with the provision regarding administrative expenses in 
section 151(b) of division B, title I of Public Law 106-554.

                             global health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to global health, $523,621,000, of which: (1) $128,421,000 
shall remain available through September 30, 2021, for international 
HIV/AIDS; and (2) $99,762,000 shall be available for global public 
health protection: Provided, That funds may be used for purchase and 
insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries.

                public health preparedness and response

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to public health preparedness and response, and for expenses 
necessary to support activities related to countering potential 
biological, nuclear, radiological, and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $880,200,000: Provided, That the Director of the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (referred to in this title as 
``CDC'') or the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry may detail staff without reimbursement for up to 180 
days to support an activation of the CDC Emergency Operations Center, 
so long as the Director or Administrator, as applicable, provides a 
notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate within 15 days of the use of this 
authority and a full report within 30 days after use of this authority 
which includes the number of staff and funding level broken down by the 
originating center and number of days detailed.

                        buildings and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition of real property, equipment, construction, 
installation, demolition, and renovation of facilities, $30,000,000, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2024: Provided, That 
in addition to the amount provided, for a new CDC research support 
building and all related material handling, utility, transportation, 
and personnel support infrastructure at the Chamblee campus, including 
necessary acquisition of real property, equipment, construction, 
demolition, installation, activation, renovation, and improvements, 
$225,000,000, which shall be derived by transfer from the Fund 
established by Public Law 110-161, division G, title II, section 223 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2024: Provided further, 
That funds previously set aside by CDC for repair and upgrade of the 
Lake Lynn Experimental Mine and Laboratory shall be used to acquire a 
replacement mine safety research facility: Provided further, That in 
addition, the prior year unobligated balance of any amounts assigned to 
former employees in accounts of CDC made available for Individual 
Learning Accounts shall be credited to and merged with the amounts made 
available under this heading to support the replacement of the mine 
safety research facility.

                cdc-wide activities and program support

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII and XIX, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act and for cross-cutting activities and program support for 
activities funded in other appropriations included in this Act for the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $163,570,000 (reduced by 
$500,000), of which up to $10,000,000 (reduced by $500,000) may be 
transferred to the reserve of the Working Capital Fund authorized under 
this heading in division F of Public Law 112-74: Provided, That 
paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) of section 2821 of the PHS 
Act shall not apply to funds appropriated under this heading and in all 
other accounts of the CDC: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $50,000,000 shall be transferred to and 
merged with the Infectious Diseases Rapid Response Reserve Fund 
established by section 231 of division B of Public Law 115-245: 
Provided further, That any funds made available by this Act to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may be used to support the 
purchase, hire, maintenance, and operation of an aircraft for use and 
support of the activities of CDC: Provided further, That employees of 
CDC or the Public Health Service, both civilian and commissioned 
officers, detailed to States, municipalities, or other organizations 
under authority of section 214 of the PHS Act, or in overseas 
assignments, shall be treated as non-Federal employees for reporting 
purposes only and shall not be included within any personnel ceiling 
applicable to the Agency, Service, or HHS during the period of detail 
or assignment: Provided further, That CDC may use up to $10,000 from 
amounts appropriated to CDC in this Act for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the Director of 
CDC: Provided further, That in addition, such sums as may be derived 
from authorized user fees, which shall be credited to the appropriation 
charged with the cost thereof: Provided further, That with respect to 
the previous proviso, authorized user fees from the Vessel Sanitation 
Program and the Respirator Certification Program shall be available 
through September 30, 2021.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cancer, $6,249,165,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000), of which up to $30,000,000 may be used for facilities 
repairs and improvements at the National Cancer Institute--Frederick 
Federally Funded Research and Development Center in Frederick, 
Maryland.

               national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, and blood and 
blood products, $3,658,822,000.

         national institute of dental and craniofacial research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to dental and craniofacial diseases, $484,350,000.

    national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, $2,129,027,000 
(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000).

        national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to neurological disorders and stroke, $2,315,571,000.

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to allergy and infectious diseases, $5,808,268,000 (increased 
by $3,000,000).

             national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to general medical sciences, $3,033,183,000, of which 
$1,146,821,000 shall be from funds available under section 241 of the 
PHS Act: Provided, That not less than $381,573,000 is provided for the 
Institutional Development Awards program.

  eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human 
                              development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to child health and human development, $1,580,084,000.

                         national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, $835,465,000.

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health sciences, $812,570,000 (reduced by 
$6,250,000) (increased by $6,250,000).

                      national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to aging, $3,286,107,000 (increased by $70,000,000).

 national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, 
$634,637,000.

    national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to deafness and other communication disorders, $497,590,000.

                 national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to nursing research, $170,958,000.

           national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $551,278,000.

                    national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to drug abuse, $1,489,237,000.

                  national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to mental health, $1,891,704,000.

                national human genome research institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to human genome research, $603,710,000.

      national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to biomedical imaging and bioengineering research, 
$408,498,000.

        national center for complementary and integrative health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to complementary and integrative health, $153,632,000.

      national institute on minority health and health disparities

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to minority health and health disparities research, 
$341,244,000.

                  john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of title IV of 
the PHS Act), $84,926,000.

                      national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to health information communications, $463,599,000: Provided, 
That of the amounts available for improvement of information systems, 
$4,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2021: Provided 
further, That in fiscal year 2020, the National Library of Medicine may 
enter into personal services contracts for the provision of services in 
facilities owned, operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of 
the National Institutes of Health (referred to in this title as 
``NIH'').

          national center for advancing translational sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to translational sciences, $845,783,000: Provided, That up to 
$80,000,000 shall be available to implement section 480 of the PHS Act, 
relating to the Cures Acceleration Network.

                         office of the director

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, NIH, $2,049,992,000 (reduced by $3,000,000): Provided, That 
funding shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, That 
all funds credited to the NIH Management Fund shall remain available 
for 1 fiscal year after the fiscal year in which they are deposited: 
Provided further, That $165,000,000 shall be for the Environmental 
Influences on Child Health Outcomes study: Provided further, That 
$617,761,000 shall be available for the Common Fund established under 
section 402A(c)(1) of the PHS Act: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $10,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Director of the NIH: 
Provided further, That the Office of AIDS Research within the Office of 
the Director of the NIH may spend up to $8,000,000 to make grants for 
construction or renovation of facilities as provided for in section 
2354(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act: Provided further, That $25,000,000 shall 
be used to carry out section 404I of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 283K), 
relating to biomedical and behavioral research facilities.
    In addition to other funds appropriated for the Common Fund 
established under section 402A(c) of the PHS Act, $12,600,000 is 
appropriated to the Common Fund from the 10-year Pediatric Research 
Initiative Fund described in section 9008 of title 26, United States 
Code, for the purpose of carrying out section 402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the 
PHS Act (relating to pediatric research), as authorized in the 
Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the study of, construction of, demolition of, renovation of, 
and acquisition of equipment for, facilities of or used by NIH, 
including the acquisition of real property, $200,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2024.

                   nih innovation account, cures act

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described in 
section 1001(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to 
amounts available for such purposes in the appropriations provided to 
the NIH in this Act, $492,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such amounts are appropriated pursuant to section 
1001(b)(3) of such Act, are to be derived from amounts transferred 
under section 1001(b)(2)(A) of such Act, and may be transferred by the 
Director of the National Institutes of Health to other accounts of the 
National Institutes of Health solely for the purposes provided in such 
Act: Provided further, That upon a determination by the Director that 
funds transferred pursuant to the previous proviso are not necessary 
for the purposes provided, such amounts may be transferred back to the 
Account: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under 
this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
law.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                             mental health

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with respect 
to mental health, the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act, and section 224 of the Protecting Access to 
Medicare Act of 2014, $1,622,974,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (increased by $6,500,000) (reduced by $1) (increased by 
$1) (reduced by $500,000) (increased by $500,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000): Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $70,887,000 shall be for the National Child Traumatic Stress 
Initiative: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 520A(f)(2) 
of the PHS Act, no funds appropriated for carrying out section 520A 
shall be available for carrying out section 1971 of the PHS Act: 
Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
$21,039,000 shall be available under section 241 of the PHS Act to 
supplement funds otherwise available for mental health activities and 
to carry out subpart I of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund 
section 1920(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection 
and evaluation activities, and further that the total available under 
this Act for section 1920(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of 
the amounts appropriated for subpart I of part B of title XIX: Provided 
further, That up to 10 percent of the amounts made available to carry 
out the Children's Mental Health Services program may be used to carry 
out demonstration grants or contracts for early interventions with 
persons not more than 25 years of age at clinical high risk of 
developing a first episode of psychosis: Provided further, That section 
520E(b)(2) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds appropriated in this 
Act for fiscal year 2020: Provided further, That of the total amount 
each State receives for carrying out section 1911 of the PHS Act, the 
State shall expend at least 10 percent of such total amount to support 
evidence-based programs that address the needs of individuals with 
early serious mental illness, including psychotic disorders, regardless 
of the age at onset, and shall expend at least 5 percent of such total 
amount for evidence-based crisis care programs addressing the needs of 
individuals with serious mental illnesses and children with serious 
mental and emotional disturbances: Provided further, That $150,000,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2022, for grants to communities 
and community organizations who meet criteria for Certified Community 
Behavioral Health Clinics pursuant to section 223(a) of Public Law 113-
93: Provided further, That none of the funds provided for section 1911 
of the PHS Act shall be subject to section 241 of such Act.

                       substance abuse treatment

    For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with respect to 
substance abuse treatment, title XIX of such Act with respect to 
substance abuse treatment and prevention, and section 3203 of the 
Support for Patients and Communities Act, $3,761,056,000 (increased by 
$1) (reduced by $1) (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $20,000,000): Provided, That $1,500,000,000 
shall be for State Opioid Response Grants for carrying out activities 
pertaining to opioids undertaken by the State agency responsible for 
administering the substance abuse prevention and treatment block grant 
under subpart II of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-
21 et seq.): Provided further, That of such amount $50,000,000 shall be 
made available to Indian Tribes or tribal organizations: Provided 
further, That 15 percent of the remaining amount shall be for the 
States with the highest mortality rate related to opioid use disorders: 
Provided further, That of the amounts provided for State Opioid 
Response Grants not more than 2 percent shall be available for Federal 
administrative expenses, training, technical assistance, and 
evaluation: Provided further, That of the amount not reserved by the 
previous three provisos, the Secretary shall make allocations to 
States, territories, and the District of Columbia according to a 
formula using national survey results that the Secretary determines are 
the most objective and reliable measure of drug use and drug-related 
deaths: Provided further, That the Secretary shall submit the formula 
methodology to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not less than 15 days prior to 
publishing a Funding Opportunity Announcement: Provided further, That 
prevention and treatment activities funded through such grants may 
include education, treatment (including the provision of medication), 
behavioral health services for individuals in treatment programs, 
referral to treatment services, recovery support, and medical screening 
associated with such treatment: Provided further, That each State, as 
well as the District of Columbia, shall receive not less than 
$4,000,000: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
herein, the following amounts shall be available under section 241 of 
the PHS Act: (1) $79,200,000 to carry out subpart II of part B of title 
XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 1935(b) technical assistance, 
national data, data collection and evaluation activities, and further 
that the total available under this Act for section 1935(b) activities 
shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts appropriated for subpart II 
of part B of title XIX; and (2) $2,000,000 to evaluate substance abuse 
treatment programs: Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
for section 1921 of the PHS Act or State Opioid Response Grants shall 
be subject to section 241 of such Act: Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading and not reserved by the 
preceding provisos, $10,000,000 shall be made available to carry out 
section 7091 of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (Public 
Law 115-271).

                       substance abuse prevention

    For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with respect to 
substance abuse prevention, $212,469,000 (increased by $2,000,000).

                health surveillance and program support

    For program support and cross-cutting activities that supplement 
activities funded under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance 
Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention'' in carrying out 
titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act and the Protection and Advocacy 
for Individuals with Mental Illness Act in the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration, $128,830,000 (reduced by 
$10,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $6,500,000) (reduced 
by $2,000,000) (increased by $19,500,000): Provided, That in addition 
to amounts provided herein, $31,428,000 shall be available under 
section 241 of the PHS Act to supplement funds available to carry out 
national surveys on drug abuse and mental health, to collect and 
analyze program data, and to conduct public awareness and technical 
assistance activities: Provided further, That, in addition, fees may be 
collected for the costs of publications, data, data tabulations, and 
data analysis completed under title V of the PHS Act and provided to a 
public or private entity upon request, which shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended for such 
purposes: Provided further, That amounts made available in this Act for 
carrying out section 501(o) of the PHS Act shall remain available 
through September 30, 2021: Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading may be used to supplement program support funding 
provided under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance Abuse 
Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention''.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    healthcare research and quality

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the PHS Act, part A of title 
XI of the Social Security Act, and section 1013 of the Medicare 
Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, 
$339,809,000: Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
$18,408,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 241 
of the PHS Act: Provided further, That section 947(c) of the PHS Act 
shall not apply in fiscal year 2020: Provided further, That in 
addition, amounts received from Freedom of Information Act fees, 
reimbursable and interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be 
credited to this appropriation and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                     grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $273,188,478,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for carrying out such titles after May 31, 2020, for 
the last quarter of fiscal year 2020 for unanticipated costs incurred 
for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, for carrying out such titles for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2021, $139,903,075,000, to remain available until expended.
    Payment under such title XIX may be made for any quarter with 
respect to a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such 
quarter, if submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that 
or any subsequent quarter.

                payments to the health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 217(g), 1844, and 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act, 
sections 103(c) and 111(d) of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, 
section 278(d)(3) of Public Law 97-248, and for administrative expenses 
incurred pursuant to section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
$410,796,100,000.
    In addition, for making matching payments under section 1844 and 
benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act that 
were not anticipated in budget estimates, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                           program management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
PHS Act, the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, and 
other responsibilities of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
not to exceed $3,984,744,000 (reduced by $4,500,000) (reduced by 
$5,000,000), to be transferred from the Federal Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, 
as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social Security Act; together 
with all funds collected in accordance with section 353 of the PHS Act 
and section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act, funds retained by 
the Secretary pursuant to section 1893(h) of the Social Security Act, 
and such sums as may be collected from authorized user fees and the 
sale of data, which shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended: Provided, That all funds derived in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations established under 
title XIII of the PHS Act shall be credited to and available for 
carrying out the purposes of this appropriation: Provided further, That 
the Secretary is directed to collect fees in fiscal year 2020 from 
Medicare Advantage organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the 
Social Security Act and from eligible organizations with risk-sharing 
contracts under section 1876 of that Act pursuant to section 
1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act: Provided further, That amounts available 
under this heading for quality improvement organizations (as defined in 
section 1152 of the Social Security Act) may not exceed the amount 
provided under this heading in division H of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141) for such organizations.
    In addition, the Secretary shall obligate not less than 
$100,000,000 in fiscal year 2020 out of amounts collected through the 
user fees on participating health insurance issuers pursuant to section 
156.50 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor 
regulations) to carry out the navigator program (as described in 
section 1311(i) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
U.S.C. 18031(i)), and to carry out outreach and educational activities, 
for purposes of informing potential enrollees in qualified health plans 
(as defined in section 1301(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 18021(a)) offered 
through an Exchange established or operated by the Secretary within a 
State, of the availability of coverage under such plans and financial 
assistance for coverage under such plans: Provided, That awards under 
such program shall be based solely on an entity's demonstrated capacity 
to carry out each of the duties specified in section 1311(i)(3) of such 
Act: Provided further, That not less than $15,000,000 shall be 
obligated for national television and not less than $15,000,000 shall 
be obligated for internet search advertising for purposes of carrying 
out such outreach and educational activities: Provider further, That 
not less than $30,000,000 of the funds made available in this paragraph 
shall be obligated for advertising during the final 2 weeks of the open 
enrollment period specified by the Secretary pursuant to section 
1311(c)(6)(B) of such Act occurring during 2019: Provided further, That 
no amounts collected through such user fees shall be available for 
expenditures for promoting health insurance coverage or a group health 
plan (as such terms are defined in section 2791 of the PHS Act (42 
U.S.C. 300gg-91)) that is not a qualified health plan.

              health care fraud and abuse control account

    In addition to amounts otherwise available for program integrity 
and program management, $786,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2021, to be transferred from the Federal Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
of which $610,000,000 shall be for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services program integrity activities, of which $93,000,000 shall be 
for the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector 
General to carry out fraud and abuse activities authorized by section 
1817(k)(3) of such Act, and of which $83,000,000 shall be for the 
Department of Justice to carry out fraud and abuse activities 
authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such Act: Provided, That the report 
required by section 1817(k)(5) of the Social Security Act for fiscal 
year 2020 shall include measures of the operational efficiency and 
impact on fraud, waste, and abuse in the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP 
programs for the funds provided by this appropriation: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided under this heading, $311,000,000 
is provided to meet the terms of section 251(b)(2)(C)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
and $475,000,000 is additional new budget authority specified for 
purposes of section 251(b)(2)(C) of such Act: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall provide not less than $18,000,000 (increased by 
$2,000,000) from amounts made available under this heading and amounts 
made available for fiscal year 2020 under section 1817(k)(3)(A) of the 
Social Security Act for the Senior Medicare Patrol program to combat 
health care fraud and abuse.

                Administration for Children and Families

  payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, 
XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 
1960, $2,890,000,000, to remain available until expended; and for such 
purposes for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, $1,400,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the 
Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960, for the last 3 months 
of the current fiscal year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                   low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under subsections (b) and (d) of section 2602 
of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621 et 
seq.), $3,840,304,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 2609A(a) 
of such Act, not more than $2,988,000 may be reserved by the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services for technical assistance, training, and 
monitoring of program activities for compliance with internal controls, 
policies and procedures and the Secretary may, in addition to the 
authorities provided in section 2609A(a)(1), use such funds through 
contracts with private entities that do not qualify as nonprofit 
organizations: Provided further, That $3,637,316,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be allocated to each State and 
territory in amounts equal to the amount each State and territory was 
allocated in fiscal year 2018 pursuant to allocations made from amounts 
appropriated under this heading in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2018 (Public Law 115-141): Provided further, that $37,280,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be allocated as though the 
total appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 2020 was less 
than $1,975,000,000.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
activities authorized by section 414 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, 
and for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
2000 (``TVPA''), and the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998, 
$2,411,701,000 (reduced by $500,000) (increased by $500,000) (increased 
by $100,000,000), of which $2,364,446,000 (increased by $100,000,000) 
shall remain available through September 30, 2022 for carrying out such 
sections 414, 501, 462, and 235: Provided, That amounts available under 
this heading to carry out the TVPA shall also be available for research 
and evaluation with respect to activities under such Act: Provided 
further, That not less than $190,000,000 (increased by $10,000,000) 
shall be used for legal services, child advocates, and post-release 
services: Provided further, That none of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used to implement or enforce the Memorandum of 
Agreement Among the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department of 
Health and Human Services and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
and U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the Department of Homeland 
Security Regarding Consultation and Information Sharing in 
Unaccompanied Alien Children Matters, dated April 13, 2018: Provided 
further, That not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate a detailed spend plan of anticipated uses of funds made 
available in this account, including the following: costs, capacity, 
and timelines for existing grants and contracts; costs for expanding 
capacity through use of community-based residential care placements 
(including long-term and transitional foster care and small group 
homes) through new or modified grants and contracts; costs and services 
to be provided for legal services, child advocates, and post-release 
services; program administration; and the average number of weekly 
referrals and discharge rate assumed in the spend plan: Provided 
further, That such plan shall be updated to reflect changes and 
expenditures and submitted to the Committees every 60 days thereafter.
    None of the funds made available in this Act may be used in 
contravention of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the William 
Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, 
or the Adoption and Safe Families Act of 1997 (as those law are in 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and including 
provisions of other statutes amended or added by those laws, as so in 
effect), or the Stipulated Settlement Agreement in Flores v. Reno (U.S. 
District Court, Central District of California, 1997).

   payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 
1990 (``CCDBG Act''), $7,676,000,000 shall be used to supplement, not 
supplant State general revenue funds for child care assistance for low-
income families: Provided, That technical assistance under section 
658I(a)(3) of such Act may be provided directly, or through the use of 
contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or interagency agreements: 
Provided further, That all funds made available to carry out section 
418 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 618), including funds 
appropriated for that purpose in such section 418 or any other 
provision of law, shall be subject to the reservation of funds 
authority in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 658O(a) of the CCDBG 
Act: Provided further, That in addition to the amounts required to be 
reserved by the Secretary under section 658O(a)(2)(A) of such Act, 
$156,780,000 shall be for Indian tribes and tribal organizations.

                      social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,700,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable 
percent specified under such subparagraph for a State to carry out 
State programs pursuant to title XX-A of such Act shall be 10 percent.

                children and families services programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Head Start Act, the Every Student Succeeds Act, 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, sections 303 and 313 of 
the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, the Native American 
Programs Act of 1974, title II of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 1978 (adoption opportunities), 
part B-1 of title IV and sections 429, 473A, 477(i), 1110, 1114A, and 
1115 of the Social Security Act, and the Community Services Block Grant 
Act (``CSBG Act''); and for necessary administrative expenses to carry 
out titles I, IV, V, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XX-A of the Social Security 
Act, the Act of July 5, 1960, the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act 
of 1981, the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, the 
Assets for Independence Act, title IV of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance 
Act of 1980, $13,967,468,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
$3,000,000), of which $75,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2021, shall be for grants to States for adoption and 
legal guardianship incentive payments, as defined by section 473A of 
the Social Security Act and may be made for adoptions and legal 
guardianships completed before September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
$11,563,095,000 shall be for making payments under the Head Start Act, 
of which, notwithstanding section 640 of such Act:
            (1) $217,000,000 shall be available for a cost of living 
        adjustment, and with respect to any continuing appropriations 
        act, funding available for a cost of living adjustment shall 
        not be construed as an authority or condition under this Act;
            (2) $25,000,000 shall be available for allocation by the 
        Secretary to supplement activities described in paragraphs 
        (7)(B) and (9) of section 641(c) of the Head Start Act under 
        the Designation Renewal System, established under the authority 
        of sections 641(c)(7), 645A(b)(12), and 645A(d) of such Act, 
        and such funds shall not be included in the calculation of 
        ``base grant'' in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is used 
        in section 640(a)(7)(A) of such Act;
            (3) $1,330,000,000, in addition to funds otherwise 
        available under such section 640 for such purposes, shall be 
        available through March 31, 2021, for Early Head Start programs 
        as described in section 645A of such Act, for conversion of 
        Head Start services to Early Head Start services as described 
        in section 645(a)(5)(A) of such Act, for discretionary grants 
        for high quality infant and toddler care through Early Head 
        Start-Child Care Partnerships, to entities defined as eligible 
        under section 645A(d) of such Act, for training and technical 
        assistance for such activities, and for up to $26,000,000 in 
        Federal costs of administration and evaluation;
            (4) $750,000,000 shall be available for quality improvement 
        consistent with section 640(a)(5) of such Act; and
            (5) $8,000,000 shall be available for the purposes of re-
        establishing the Tribal Colleges and Universities Head Start 
        Partnership Program consistent with section 648(g) of such Act:
 Provided further, That the Secretary may reduce the reservation of 
funds under section 640(a)(2)(C) of such Act in lieu of reducing the 
reservation of funds under sections 640(a)(2)(B), 640(a)(2)(D), and 
640(a)(2)(E) of such Act: Provided further, That $350,000,000 shall be 
available until December 31, 2020 for carrying out sections 9212 and 
9213 of the Every Student Succeeds Act: Provided further, That up to 3 
percent of the funds in the preceding proviso shall be available for 
technical assistance and evaluation related to grants awarded under 
such section 9212: Provided further, That $796,000,000 shall be for 
making payments under the CSBG Act: Provided further, That $36,000,000 
shall be for sections 680 and 678E(b)(2) of the CSBG Act, of which not 
less than $25,000,000 shall be for section 680(a)(2) and not less than 
$11,000,000 shall be for section 680(a)(3)(B) of such Act: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding section 675C(a)(3) of such Act, to the 
extent Community Services Block Grant funds are distributed as grant 
funds by a State to an eligible entity as provided under such Act, and 
have not been expended by such entity, they shall remain with such 
entity for carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such 
entity consistent with program purposes: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall establish procedures regarding the disposition of 
intangible assets and program income that permit such assets acquired 
with, and program income derived from, grant funds authorized under 
section 680 of the CSBG Act to become the sole property of such 
grantees after a period of not more than 12 years after the end of the 
grant period for any activity consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) of 
the CSBG Act: Provided further, That intangible assets in the form of 
loans, equity investments and other debt instruments, and program 
income may be used by grantees for any eligible purpose consistent with 
section 680(a)(2)(A) of the CSBG Act: Provided further, That these 
procedures shall apply to such grant funds made available after 
November 29, 1999: Provided further, That funds appropriated for 
section 680(a)(2) of the CSBG Act shall be available for financing 
construction and rehabilitation and loans or investments in private 
business enterprises owned by community development corporations: 
Provided further, That $175,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 
303(a) of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, of which 
$5,000,000 shall be allocated notwithstanding section 303(a)(2) of such 
Act for carrying out section 309 of such Act: Provided further, That 
the percentages specified in section 112(a)(2) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act shall not apply to funds appropriated 
under this heading: Provided further, That $1,864,000 shall be for a 
human services case management system for federally declared disasters, 
to include a comprehensive national case management contract and 
Federal costs of administering the system: Provided further, That up to 
$2,000,000 shall be for improving the Public Assistance Reporting 
Information System, including grants to States to support data 
collection for a study of the system's effectiveness.

                   promoting safe and stable families

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, section 436 of the 
Social Security Act, $345,000,000 and, for carrying out, except as 
otherwise provided, section 437 of such Act, $79,765,000: Provided, 
That of the funds available to carry out section 437, $59,765,000 shall 
be allocated consistent with subsections (b) through (d) of such 
section: Provided further, That of the funds available to carry out 
section 437, to assist in meeting the requirements described in section 
471(e)(4)(C), $20,000,000 shall be for grants to each State, territory, 
and Indian tribe operating title IV-E plans for developing, enhancing, 
or evaluating kinship navigator programs, as described in section 
427(a)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That section 437(b)(1) shall 
be applied to amounts in the previous proviso by substituting ``5 
percent'' for ``3.3 percent'', and notwithstanding section 436(b)(1), 
such reserved amounts may be used for identifying, establishing, and 
disseminating practices to meet the criteria specified in section 
471(e)(4)(C): Provided further, That the reservation in section 
437(b)(2) and the limitations in section 437(d) shall not apply to 
funds specified in the second proviso: Provided further, That the 
minimum grant award for kinship navigator programs in the case of 
States and territories shall be $200,000, and, in the case of tribes, 
shall be $25,000: Provided further, That section 437(b)(4) of such Act 
shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 2020'' for ``fiscal year 
2018''.

                payments for foster care and permanency

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, $5,744,000,000.
    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, 
$3,000,000,000.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, section 474 of title IV-E of the Social Security 
Act, for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for unanticipated 
costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                  Administration for Community Living

                 aging and disability services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 (``OAA''), the RAISE Family Caregivers Act, the 
Supporting Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Act, titles III and XXIX 
of the PHS Act, sections 1252 and 1253 of the PHS Act, section 119 of 
the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, title 
XX-B of the Social Security Act, the Developmental Disabilities 
Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, parts 2 and 5 of subtitle D of title 
II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, the Assistive Technology Act 
of 1998, titles II and VII (and section 14 with respect to such titles) 
of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and for Department-wide coordination 
of policy and program activities that assist individuals with 
disabilities, $2,294,343,000 (increased by $4,500,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000), together with $55,000,000 to be transferred from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund to carry out section 4360 of the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990: Provided, That amounts appropriated 
under this heading may be used for grants to States under section 361 
of the OAA only for disease prevention and health promotion programs 
and activities which have been demonstrated through rigorous evaluation 
to be evidence-based and effective: Provided further, That of amounts 
made available under this heading to carry out sections 311, 331, and 
336 of the OAA, up to 1 percent of such amounts shall be available for 
developing and implementing evidence-based practices for enhancing 
senior nutrition, including medically-tailored meals: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds made 
available under this heading to carry out section 311 of the OAA may be 
transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with such 
section: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be for competitive 
grants to support alternative financing programs that provide for the 
purchase of assistive technology devices, such as a low-interest loan 
fund; an interest buy-down program; a revolving loan fund; a loan 
guarantee; or an insurance program: Provided further, That applicants 
shall provide an assurance that, and information describing the manner 
in which, the alternative financing program will expand and emphasize 
consumer choice and control: Provided further, That State agencies and 
community-based disability organizations that are directed by and 
operated for individuals with disabilities shall be eligible to 
compete: Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
this heading may be used by an eligible system (as defined in section 
102 of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness 
Act (42 U.S.C. 10802)) to continue to pursue any legal action in a 
Federal or State court on behalf of an individual or group of 
individuals with a developmental disability (as defined in section 
102(8)(A) of the Developmental Disabilities and Assistance and Bill of 
Rights Act of 2000 (20 U.S.C. 15002(8)(A)) that is attributable to a 
mental impairment (or a combination of mental and physical 
impairments), that has as the requested remedy the closure of State 
operated intermediate care facilities for people with intellectual or 
developmental disabilities, unless reasonable public notice of the 
action has been provided to such individuals (or, in the case of mental 
incapacitation, the legal guardians who have been specifically awarded 
authority by the courts to make healthcare and residential decisions on 
behalf of such individuals) who are affected by such action, within 90 
days of instituting such legal action, which informs such individuals 
(or such legal guardians) of their legal rights and how to exercise 
such rights consistent with current Federal Rules of Civil Procedure: 
Provided further, That the limitations in the immediately preceding 
proviso shall not apply in the case of an individual who is neither 
competent to consent nor has a legal guardian, nor shall the proviso 
apply in the case of individuals who are a ward of the State or subject 
to public guardianship.

                        Departmental Management

                    general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six passenger motor 
vehicles, and for carrying out titles III, XVII, XXI, and section 229 
of the PHS Act, functions of the Departmental Appeals Board authorized 
in title XVIII of the Social Security Act, the United States-Mexico 
Border Health Commission Act, and research studies under section 1110 
of the Social Security Act, $474,169,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $900,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
$5,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (reduced by $5,570,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$3,000,000) (reduced by $15,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced 
by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced 
by $1,000,000), together with $64,828,000 from the amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out national health or human 
services research and evaluation activities: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $60,000,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000) shall be for minority AIDS prevention and treatment 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $20,000,000 shall be for the Departmental Appeals Board: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$110,000,000 shall be for making competitive grants to public and 
private entities, as well as continuing to fund through fiscal year 
2020 grants awarded for fiscal years 2015 through 2019, to fund 
medically accurate and age appropriate programs that reduce teen 
pregnancy and for the Federal costs associated with administering and 
evaluating such grants, of which not more than 10 percent of the 
available funds shall be for training and technical assistance, 
outreach, and additional program support activities, and of the 
remaining amount 75 percent shall be for replicating programs that have 
been proven effective through rigorous evaluation to reduce teenage 
pregnancy, behavioral risk factors underlying teenage pregnancy, or 
other associated risk factors, and 25 percent shall be available for 
research and demonstration grants to develop, replicate, refine, and 
test additional models and innovative strategies for preventing teenage 
pregnancy: Provided further, That amounts made available under this 
heading for programs to reduce teen pregnancy shall not be made 
available by interagency agreement or otherwise to any agency within 
the Department of Health and Human Services other than the Office of 
the Secretary to carry out or support such programs:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts provided under this heading from amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act, $6,800,000 shall be available to 
carry out evaluations (including longitudinal evaluations) of teenage 
pregnancy prevention approaches: Provided further, That funds provided 
in this Act for embryo adoption activities may be used to provide to 
individuals adopting embryos, through grants and other mechanisms, 
medical and administrative services deemed necessary for such 
adoptions: Provided further, That such services shall be provided 
consistent with 42 CFR 59.5(a)(4).
    For an additional amount for prize competitions (as authorized by 
section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 
(15 U.S.C. 3719)), $10,000,000.

                office of medicare hearings and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Medicare Hearings and 
Appeals, $182,381,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021, 
to be transferred in appropriate part from the Federal Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund.

  office of the national coordinator for health information technology

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the National Coordinator 
for Health Information Technology, including grants, contracts, and 
cooperative agreements for the development and advancement of 
interoperable health information technology, $60,367,000 shall be 
available from amounts available under section 241 of the PHS Act.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for investigations, in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$85,000,000: Provided, That of such amount, necessary sums shall be 
available for providing protective services to the Secretary and 
investigating non-payment of child support cases for which non-payment 
is a Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. 228.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$38,798,000.

     retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
and for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act, such amounts as may be required during 
the current fiscal year.

            public health and social services emergency fund

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, nuclear, radiological, chemical, and 
cybersecurity threats to civilian populations, and for other public 
health emergencies, $1,083,458,000 (increased by $1,000,000), of which 
$566,700,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2021, for 
expenses necessary to support advanced research and development 
pursuant to section 319L of the PHS Act and other administrative 
expenses of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority: 
Provided, That funds provided under this heading for the purpose of 
acquisition of security countermeasures shall be in addition to any 
other funds available for such purpose: Provided further, That products 
purchased with funds provided under this heading may, at the discretion 
of the Secretary, be deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile 
pursuant to section 319F-2 of the PHS Act: Provided further, That 
$5,000,000 of the amounts made available to support emergency 
operations shall remain available through September 30, 2022.
    For expenses necessary for procuring security countermeasures (as 
defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act), $735,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For expenses necessary to carry out section 319F-2(a) of the PHS 
Act, $920,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For an additional amount for expenses necessary to prepare for or 
respond to an influenza pandemic, $270,000,000, of which $225,000,000 
shall be available until expended, for activities including the 
development and purchase of vaccine, antivirals, necessary medical 
supplies, diagnostics, and other surveillance tools: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 496(b) of the PHS Act, funds may be used for 
the construction or renovation of privately owned facilities for the 
production of pandemic influenza vaccines and other biologics, if the 
Secretary finds such construction or renovation necessary to secure 
sufficient supplies of such vaccines or biologics.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $50,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated in this title shall be 
used to pay the salary of an individual, through a grant or other 
extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of Executive Level II.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the PHS Act, except for funds 
specifically provided for in this Act, or for other taps and 
assessments made by any office located in HHS, prior to the preparation 
and submission of a report by the Secretary to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 204.  Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the PHS Act, such 
portion as the Secretary shall determine, but not more than 2.5 
percent, of any amounts appropriated for programs authorized under such 
Act shall be made available for the evaluation (directly, or by grants 
or contracts) and the implementation and effectiveness of programs 
funded in this title.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for HHS in 
this Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer: Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
shall be available only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 206.  In lieu of the timeframe specified in section 338E(c)(2) 
of the PHS Act, terminations described in such section may occur up to 
60 days after the effective date of a contract awarded in fiscal year 
2020 under section 338B of such Act, or at any time if the individual 
who has been awarded such contract has not received funds due under the 
contract.
    Sec. 207.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the PHS Act unless the 
applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it encourages 
family participation in the decision of minors to seek family planning 
services and that it provides counseling to minors on how to resist 
attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual activities.
    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the PHS Act shall be exempt from any State 
law requiring notification or the reporting of child abuse, child 
molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary denies participation in 
such program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider 
Sponsored Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that 
it will not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals 
for abortions: Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees): Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare Advantage 
organization described in this section shall be responsible for 
informing enrollees where to obtain information about all Medicare 
covered services.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used, in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun control.
    Sec. 211.  The Secretary shall make available through assignment 
not more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in 
child survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with 
funds provided by the Agency for International Development, the United 
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 212.  In order for HHS to carry out international health 
activities, including HIV/AIDS and other infectious disease, chronic 
and environmental disease, and other health activities abroad during 
fiscal year 2020:
            (1) The Secretary may exercise authority equivalent to that 
        available to the Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the 
        State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956. The Secretary 
        shall consult with the Secretary of State and relevant Chief of 
        Mission to ensure that the authority provided in this section 
        is exercised in a manner consistent with section 207 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 and other applicable statutes 
        administered by the Department of State.
            (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide such funds by 
        advance or reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
        necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, alteration, 
        renovation, and management of facilities outside of the United 
        States for the use of HHS. The Department of State shall 
        cooperate fully with the Secretary to ensure that HHS has 
        secure, safe, functional facilities that comply with applicable 
        regulation governing location, setback, and other facilities 
        requirements and serve the purposes established by this Act. 
        The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with the Secretary 
        of State, through grant or cooperative agreement, to make 
        available to public or nonprofit private institutions or 
        agencies in participating foreign countries, funds to acquire, 
        lease, alter, or renovate facilities in those countries as 
        necessary to conduct programs of assistance for international 
        health activities, including activities relating to HIV/AIDS 
        and other infectious diseases, chronic and environmental 
        diseases, and other health activities abroad.
            (3) The Secretary is authorized to provide to personnel 
        appointed or assigned by the Secretary to serve abroad, 
        allowances and benefits similar to those provided under chapter 
        9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and 22 U.S.C. 
        4081 through 4086 and subject to such regulations prescribed by 
        the Secretary. The Secretary is further authorized to provide 
        locality-based comparability payments (stated as a percentage) 
        up to the amount of the locality-based comparability payment 
        (stated as a percentage) that would be payable to such 
        personnel under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code if 
        such personnel's official duty station were in the District of 
        Columbia. Leaves of absence for personnel under this subsection 
        shall be on the same basis as that provided under subchapter I 
        of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or section 903 of 
        the Foreign Service Act of 1980, to individuals serving in the 
        Foreign Service.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 213. The Director of the NIH, jointly with the Director of the 
Office of AIDS Research, may transfer up to 3 percent among institutes 
and centers from the total amounts identified by these two Directors as 
funding for research pertaining to the human immunodeficiency virus: 
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214. Of the amounts made available in this Act for NIH, the 
amount for research related to the human immunodeficiency virus, as 
jointly determined by the Director of NIH and the Director of the 
Office of AIDS Research, shall be made available to the ``Office of 
AIDS Research'' account. The Director of the Office of AIDS Research 
shall transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out section 
2353(d)(3) of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 215. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Director of NIH (``Director'') may use funds authorized under 
section 402(b)(12) of the PHS Act to enter into transactions (other 
than contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants) to carry out 
research identified pursuant to or research and activities described in 
such section 402(b)(12).
    (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under subsection 
(a), the Director may utilize such peer review procedures (including 
consultation with appropriate scientific experts) as the Director 
determines to be appropriate to obtain assessments of scientific and 
technical merit. Such procedures shall apply to such transactions in 
lieu of the peer review and advisory council review procedures that 
would otherwise be required under sections 301(a)(3), 405(b)(1)(B), 
405(b)(2), 406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 494 of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 216.  Not to exceed $45,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
Act to the institutes and centers of the National Institutes of Health 
may be used for alteration, repair, or improvement of facilities, as 
necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the activities 
authorized herein, at not to exceed $3,500,000 per project.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217. Of the amounts made available for NIH, 1 percent of the 
amount made available for National Research Service Awards (``NRSA'') 
shall be made available to the Administrator of the Health Resources 
and Services Administration to make NRSA awards for research in primary 
medical care to individuals affiliated with entities who have received 
grants or contracts under sections 736, 739, or 747 of the PHS Act, and 
1 percent of the amount made available for NRSA shall be made available 
to the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to 
make NRSA awards for health service research.
    Sec. 218. (a) The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development 
Authority (``BARDA'') may enter into a contract, for more than one but 
no more than 10 program years, for purchase of research services or of 
security countermeasures, as that term is defined in section 319F-
2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6b(c)(1)(B)), if--
            (1) funds are available and obligated--
                    (A) for the full period of the contract or for the 
                first fiscal year in which the contract is in effect; 
                and
                    (B) for the estimated costs associated with a 
                necessary termination of the contract; and
            (2) the Secretary determines that a multi-year contract 
        will serve the best interests of the Federal Government by 
        encouraging full and open competition or promoting economy in 
        administration, performance, and operation of BARDA's programs.
    (b) A contract entered into under this section--
            (1) shall include a termination clause as described by 
        subsection (c) of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code; 
        and
            (2) shall be subject to the congressional notice 
        requirement stated in subsection (d) of such section.
    Sec. 219. (a) The Secretary shall publish in the fiscal year 2021 
budget justification and on Departmental Web sites information 
concerning the employment of full-time equivalent Federal employees or 
contractors for the purposes of implementing, administering, enforcing, 
or otherwise carrying out the provisions of the ACA, and the amendments 
made by that Act, in the proposed fiscal year and each fiscal year 
since the enactment of the ACA.
    (b) With respect to employees or contractors supported by all funds 
appropriated for purposes of carrying out the ACA (and the amendments 
made by that Act), the Secretary shall include, at a minimum, the 
following information:
            (1) For each such fiscal year, the section of such Act 
        under which such funds were appropriated, a statement 
        indicating the program, project, or activity receiving such 
        funds, the Federal operating division or office that 
        administers such program, and the amount of funding received in 
        discretionary or mandatory appropriations.
            (2) For each such fiscal year, the number of full-time 
        equivalent employees or contracted employees assigned to each 
        authorized and funded provision detailed in accordance with 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) In carrying out this section, the Secretary may exclude from 
the report employees or contractors who--
            (1) are supported through appropriations enacted in laws 
        other than the ACA and work on programs that existed prior to 
        the passage of the ACA;
            (2) spend less than 50 percent of their time on activities 
        funded by or newly authorized in the ACA; or
            (3) work on contracts for which FTE reporting is not a 
        requirement of their contract, such as fixed-price contracts.
    Sec. 220.  The Secretary shall publish, as part of the fiscal year 
2021 budget of the President submitted under section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, information that details the uses of all funds 
used by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services specifically for 
Health Insurance Exchanges for each fiscal year since the enactment of 
the ACA and the proposed uses for such funds for fiscal year 2021. Such 
information shall include, for each such fiscal year, the amount of 
funds used for each activity specified under the heading ``Health 
Insurance Exchange Transparency'' in the committee report accompanying 
this Act.
    Sec. 221.  None of the funds made available by this Act from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Supplemental 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, or transferred from other accounts funded 
by this Act to the ``Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services--Program 
Management'' account, may be used for payments under section 1342(b)(1) 
of Public Law 111-148 (relating to risk corridors).

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  (a) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall transfer funds appropriated under section 4002 of the 
ACA to the accounts specified, in the amounts specified, and for the 
activities specified under the heading ``Prevention and Public Health 
Fund'' in the committee report accompanying this Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 4002(c) of the ACA, the Secretary may 
not further transfer these amounts.
    (c) Funds transferred for activities authorized under section 2821 
of the PHS Act shall be made available without reference to section 
2821(b) of such Act.
    Sec. 223.  Effective during the period beginning on November 1, 
2015 and ending January 1, 2022, any provision of law that refers 
(including through cross-reference to another provision of law) to the 
current recommendations of the United States Preventive Services Task 
Force with respect to breast cancer screening, mammography, and 
prevention shall be administered by the Secretary involved as if--
            (1) such reference to such current recommendations were a 
        reference to the recommendations of such Task Force with 
        respect to breast cancer screening, mammography, and prevention 
        last issued before 2009; and
            (2) such recommendations last issued before 2009 applied to 
        any screening mammography modality under section 1861(jj) of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(jj)).
    Sec. 224.  In making Federal financial assistance, the provisions 
relating to indirect costs in part 75 of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, including with respect to the approval of deviations from 
negotiated rates, shall continue to apply to the National Institutes of 
Health to the same extent and in the same manner as such provisions 
were applied in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. None of the 
funds appropriated in this or prior Acts or otherwise made available to 
the Department of Health and Human Services or to any department or 
agency may be used to develop or implement a modified approach to such 
provisions, or to intentionally or substantially expand the fiscal 
effect of the approval of such deviations from negotiated rates beyond 
the proportional effect of such approvals in such quarter.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 225. The NIH Director may transfer funds specifically 
appropriated for opioid addiction, opioid alternatives, pain 
management, and addiction treatment to other Institutes and Centers of 
the NIH to be used for the same purpose 15 days after notifying the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That the transfer authority 
provided in the previous proviso is in addition to any other transfer 
authority provided by law.
    Sec. 226. (a) The Secretary shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:
            (1) Detailed monthly enrollment figures from the Exchanges 
        established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
        Act of 2010 pertaining to enrollments during the open 
        enrollment period, including State enrollment figures 
        disaggregated by race, ethnicity, preferred language, age, and 
        sex.
            (2) Notification of any new or competitive grant awards, 
        including supplements, authorized under section 330 of the 
        Public Health Service Act.
    (b) The Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate must 
be notified at least 2 business days in advance of any public release 
of enrollment information or the award of such grants.
    Sec. 227.  Not later than the 15th day of each month, the 
Department of Health and Human Services shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate a report on 
staffing described in the committee report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 228.  Funds appropriated in this Act that are available for 
salaries and expenses of employees of the Department of Health and 
Human Services shall also be available to pay travel and related 
expenses of such an employee or of a member of his or her family, when 
such employee is assigned to duty, in the United States or in a U.S. 
territory, during a period and in a location that are the subject of a 
determination of a public health emergency under section 319 of the 
Public Health Service Act and such travel is necessary to obtain 
medical care for an illness, injury, or medical condition that cannot 
be adequately addressed in that location at that time. For purposes of 
this section, the term ``U.S. territory'' means Guam, the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, 
American Samoa, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
    Sec. 229.  The Department of Health and Human Services may accept 
donations from the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and 
other groups independent of the Federal Government for the care of 
unaccompanied alien children (as defined in section 462(g)(2) of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))) in the care of the 
Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Administration for Children and 
Families, including medical goods and services, which may include early 
childhood developmental screenings, school supplies, toys, clothing, 
and any other items intended to promote the wellbeing of such children.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 230. Of the unobligated balances made available by section 
301(b)(3) of Public Law 114-10, $4,300,000,000 are hereby permanently 
rescinded.
    Sec. 231.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to prevent a United States Senator or Member of the House of 
Representatives from entering, for the purpose of conducting oversight, 
any facility in the United States used for the purpose of maintaining 
custody of, or otherwise housing, unaccompanied alien children (as 
defined in section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 279(g)(2))). Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require such a Senator or Member to provide prior notice of the intent 
to enter such a facility for such purpose.
    Sec. 232.  To the extent practicable, and so long as it is 
appropriate and in the best interest of the child, in cases where the 
Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department of Health and Human 
Services is responsible for the care of siblings who are unaccompanied 
alien children (as defined in section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2)), the Director of the Office 
shall place the siblings--
            (1) in the same facility; or
            (2) with the same sponsor.
    Sec. 233. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act or provided by 
any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or to any other official of a Federal agency funded by this 
Act may be used to facilitate the Secretary of Homeland Security 
placing in detention, removing, referring for a decision whether to 
initiate removal proceedings, or initiating removal proceedings against 
a sponsor, potential sponsor, or member of a household of a sponsor or 
potential sponsor of an unaccompanied alien child (as defined in 
section 462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))) 
based on information shared by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or information shared by an unaccompanied alien child himself 
or herself with the Department of Homeland Security or the Department 
of Health and Human Services.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if a background check of a 
sponsor, potential sponsor, or member of a household of a sponsor or 
potential sponsor reveals--
            (1) a felony conviction or pending felony charge that 
        relates to--
                    (A) an aggravated felony (as defined in section 
                101(a)(43) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)));
                    (B) child abuse;
                    (C) sexual violence or abuse; or
                    (D) child pornography;
            (2) an association with any business that employs a minor 
        who--
                    (A) is unrelated to the sponsor, potential sponsor, 
                or member of a household of a sponsor or potential 
                sponsor; and
                    (B) is--
                            (i) not paid a legal wage; or
                            (ii) unable to attend school due to 
                        employment; or
            (3) an association with the organization or implementation 
        of prostitution.
    Sec. 234.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to house unaccompanied alien children (as such term is defined in 
section 462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))) 
in--
    (a) soft-sided dormitories; or
    (b) an influx facility that is not State-licensed for the care of 
dependent minors, except in the case that the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services determines that housing unaccompanied alien children in 
such a facility is necessary on a temporary basis due to an influx of 
such children or an emergency, provided that--
            (1) any such influx facility that remains in operation for 
        more than 3 consecutive months shall fully comply with the 
        requirements listed in Exhibit 1 of the Flores Settlement 
        Agreement, regardless of the status of the underlying 
        settlement agreement, as well as the standard staffing ratio 
        requirements for youth care workers, mental health providers, 
        and clinicians to children that permanent facilities are 
        required to meet, including those in section 4.4.1 of the 
        Office of Refugee Resettlement's (ORR) Policies and Procedures 
        Guide for ``Children Entering the United States 
        Unaccompanied'';
            (2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services may grant a 
        1-month waiver for an influx facility's non-compliance with 
        paragraph (1) if the Secretary certifies and provides a report 
        to Congress on the facility's good-faith efforts and progress 
        towards compliance;
            (3) not more than three consecutive waivers under paragraph 
        (2) may be granted to any one facility;
            (4) ORR shall ensure full adherence to the monitoring 
        requirements set forth in sections 5.5 and 3.3.16 of its 
        Policies and Procedures Guide; and
            (5) for any such influx facility in operation for more than 
        3 consecutive months, ORR shall conduct a minimum of one 
        comprehensive monitoring visit during the first 3 months of 
        operation, with quarterly monitoring visits thereafter.
    Sec. 235.  Not later than 14 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and weekly thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, and make publicly available online, 
a report with respect to children who were separated from their parents 
or legal guardians by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 
(regardless of whether or not such separation was pursuant to an option 
selected by the children, parents, or guardians), subsequently 
classified as unaccompanied alien children, and transferred to the care 
and custody of the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department of 
Health and Human Services (ORR) during the previous week. Each report 
shall contain the following information:
            (1) The number and ages of children so separated at or 
        between ports of entry, to be reported by sector where 
        separation occurred.
            (2) The documented cause of separation, as reported by DHS 
        when each child was referred.
            (3) The custody status of the parents or legal guardians 
        from whom the child was separated.
    Sec. 236. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
awarded to any organization, including under the Federal Foster Care 
program under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act, that does 
not comply with subsections (c) and (d) of section 75.300 of title 45, 
Code of Federal Regulations (prohibiting discrimination on the basis of 
age, disability, sex, race, color, national origin, religion, gender 
identity, or sexual orientation).
    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used by the 
Department of Health and Human Services to grant an exception from 
either such subsection for any Federal grantee.
    Sec. 237.  Funds appropriated under this Act, any previous 
appropriations Act, or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
that are available for salaries and expenses of employees of the 
Department of Health and Human Services shall also remain available for 
obligation for the primary and secondary schooling of eligible 
dependents of HHS personnel stationed in the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and other 
territories or possessions of the United States at costs not in excess 
of those paid for or reimbursed by the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 238.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, enforce, or otherwise give effect to the revision to 
section 447.10 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, contained in 
the proposed rule entitled ``Medicaid Program; Reassignment of Medicaid 
Provider Claims'' (83 Fed. Reg. 32252 (July 12, 2018)).
    Sec. 239.  None of the funds appropriated in this bill or otherwise 
made available to the Department of Health and Human Services shall be 
used to publish the proposed regulation in the Fall 2018 Unified Agenda 
of Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions relating to the Medicaid 
Nonemergency Medical Transportation benefit for Medicaid beneficiaries 
expected to be published for comment in May 2019 and promulgated in 
Fall 2019 (RIN: 0938-AT81).
    Sec. 240.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize, implement, or enforce the rule entitled ``Protecting 
Statutory Conscience Rights in Health Care; Delegations of Authority'' 
issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (RIN 0945-AA10).
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I and subpart 2 of part B of title II of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act 
as ``ESEA'') and section 418A of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(referred to in this Act as ``HEA''), $17,563,802,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), of which $6,638,625,000 shall 
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2021, and of which $10,841,177,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2020, and shall remain available through September 30, 
2021, for academic year 2020-2021: Provided, That $6,459,401,000 shall 
be for basic grants under section 1124 of the ESEA: Provided further, 
That up to $5,000,000 of these funds shall be available to the 
Secretary of Education (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') on 
October 1, 2019, to obtain annually updated local educational agency-
level census poverty data from the Bureau of the Census: Provided 
further, That $1,362,301,000 shall be for concentration grants under 
section 1124A of the ESEA: Provided further, That $4,519,050,000 shall 
be for targeted grants under section 1125 of the ESEA: Provided 
further, That $4,519,050,000 shall be for education finance incentive 
grants under section 1125A of the ESEA: Provided further, That 
$224,000,000 shall be for carrying out subpart 2 of part B of title II: 
Provided further, That $50,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 
418A of the HEA.

                               Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VII of the ESEA, $1,498,112,000, 
of which $1,351,242,000 shall be for basic support payments under 
section 7003(b), $48,316,000 shall be for payments for children with 
disabilities under section 7003(d), $17,406,000, shall be for 
construction under section 7007(a), $76,313,000 shall be for Federal 
property payments under section 7002, and $4,835,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for facilities maintenance under 
section 7008: Provided, That for purposes of computing the amount of a 
payment for an eligible local educational agency under section 7003(a) 
for school year 2019-2020, children enrolled in a school of such agency 
that would otherwise be eligible for payment under section 
7003(a)(1)(B) of such Act, but due to the deployment of both parents or 
legal guardians, or a parent or legal guardian having sole custody of 
such children, or due to the death of a military parent or legal 
guardian while on active duty (so long as such children reside on 
Federal property as described in section 7003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer 
eligible under such section, shall be considered as eligible students 
under such section, provided such students remain in average daily 
attendance at a school in the same local educational agency they 
attended prior to their change in eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by part B 
of title I, part A of title II, subpart 1 of part A of title IV, part B 
of title IV, part B of title V, and parts B and C of title VI of the 
ESEA; the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act; section 203 of the 
Educational Technical Assistance Act of 2002; the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003; and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
$6,016,470,000, of which $4,174,902,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2020, and remain available through September 30, 2021, and of which 
$1,681,441,000 shall become available on October 1, 2020, and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2021, for academic year 2020-
2021: Provided, That $378,000,000 shall be for part B of title I: 
Provided further, That $1,321,673,000 shall be for part B of title IV: 
Provided further, That $40,000,000 shall be for part B of title VI and 
may be used for construction, renovation, and modernization of any 
elementary school, secondary school, or structure related to an 
elementary school or secondary school, run by the Department of 
Education of the State of Hawaii, that serves a predominantly Native 
Hawaiian student body: Provided further, That $36,453,000 shall be for 
part C of title VI and shall be awarded on a competitive basis, and 
also may be used for construction: Provided further, That $60,400,000 
shall be available to carry out section 203 of the Educational 
Technical Assistance Act of 2002 and the Secretary shall make such 
arrangements as determined to be necessary to ensure that the Bureau of 
Indian Education has access to services provided under this section: 
Provided further, That $16,699,000 shall be available to carry out the 
Supplemental Education Grants program for the Federated States of 
Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands: Provided further, 
That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 percent of the amount referred 
to in the previous proviso to provide technical assistance in the 
implementation of these grants: Provided further, That $180,840,000 
shall be for part B of title V: Provided further, That $1,320,000,000 
shall be available for grants under subpart 1 of part A of title IV.

                            Indian Education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title VI, part A of the ESEA, $186,374,000, of which 
$67,993,000 shall be for subpart 2 of part A of title VI and 
$13,000,000 shall be for subpart 3 of part A of title VI.

                       Innovation and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by subparts 1, 3 and 4 of 
part B of title II, and parts C, D, and E and subparts 1 and 4 of part 
F of title IV of the ESEA, $1,223,815,000 (increased by $500,000): 
Provided, That $304,815,000 (increased by $500,000) shall be for 
subparts 1, 3 and 4 of part B of title II and shall be made available 
without regard to sections 2201, 2231(b) and 2241: Provided further, 
That $619,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
shall be for parts C, D, and E and subpart 4 of part F of title IV, and 
shall be made available without regard to sections 4311, 4409(a), and 
4601 of the ESEA: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
4601(b), $300,000,000 shall be available through December 31, 2020 for 
subpart 1 of part F of title IV, of which $170,000,000 shall be for 
social and emotional learning grants, and $125,000,000 shall be used 
for science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics, including 
computer science education grants.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

    For carrying out activities authorized by subparts 2 and 3 of part 
F of title IV of the ESEA, $240,000,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $80,000,000): Provided, That 
$120,000,000 (increased by $80,000,000) shall be available for section 
4631, of which up to $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (Project 
SERV) program: Provided further, That $40,000,000 shall be available 
for section 4625: Provided further, That $80,000,000 shall be available 
through December 31, 2020, for section 4624.

                      English Language Acquisition

    For carrying out part A of title III of the ESEA, $980,000,000, 
which shall become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021, except that 6.5 percent of such 
amount shall be available on October 1, 2019, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021, to carry out activities under 
section 3111(c)(1)(C).

                           Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(IDEA) and the Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004, 
$14,523,544,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), of 
which $4,975,709,000 shall become available on July 1, 2020, and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2021, and of which 
$9,283,383,000 shall become available on October 1, 2020, and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2021, for academic year 2020-
2021: Provided, That the amount for section 611(b)(2) of the IDEA shall 
be equal to the lesser of the amount available for that activity during 
fiscal year 2019, increased by the amount of inflation as specified in 
section 619(d)(2)(B) of the IDEA, or the percent change in the funds 
appropriated under section 611(i) of the IDEA, but not less than the 
amount for that activity during fiscal year 2019: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall, without regard to section 611(d) of the IDEA, 
distribute to all other States (as that term is defined in section 
611(g)(2)), subject to the third proviso, any amount by which a State's 
allocation under section 611, from funds appropriated under this 
heading, is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B), according to the 
following: 85 percent on the basis of the States' relative populations 
of children aged 3 through 21 who are of the same age as children with 
disabilities for whom the State ensures the availability of a free 
appropriate public education under this part, and 15 percent to States 
on the basis of the States' relative populations of those children who 
are living in poverty: Provided further, That the Secretary may not 
distribute any funds under the previous proviso to any State whose 
reduction in allocation from funds appropriated under this heading made 
funds available for such a distribution: Provided further, That the 
States shall allocate such funds distributed under the second proviso 
to local educational agencies in accordance with section 611(f): 
Provided further, That the amount by which a State's allocation under 
section 611(d) of the IDEA is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B) and 
the amounts distributed to States under the previous provisos in fiscal 
year 2012 or any subsequent year shall not be considered in calculating 
the awards under section 611(d) for fiscal year 2013 or for any 
subsequent fiscal years: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the 
provision in section 612(a)(18)(B) regarding the fiscal year in which a 
State's allocation under section 611(d) is reduced for failure to 
comply with the requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A), the Secretary may 
apply the reduction specified in section 612(a)(18)(B) over a period of 
consecutive fiscal years, not to exceed five, until the entire 
reduction is applied: Provided further, That the Secretary may, in any 
fiscal year in which a State's allocation under section 611 is reduced 
in accordance with section 612(a)(18)(B), reduce the amount a State may 
reserve under section 611(e)(1) by an amount that bears the same 
relation to the maximum amount described in that paragraph as the 
reduction under section 612(a)(18)(B) bears to the total allocation the 
State would have received in that fiscal year under section 611(d) in 
the absence of the reduction: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall either reduce the allocation of funds under section 611 for any 
fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the State fails to 
comply with the requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A) as authorized by 
section 612(a)(18)(B), or seek to recover funds under section 452 of 
the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1234a): Provided 
further, That the funds reserved under 611(c) of the IDEA may be used 
to provide technical assistance to States to improve the capacity of 
the States to meet the data collection requirements of sections 616 and 
618 and to administer and carry out other services and activities to 
improve data collection, coordination, quality, and use under parts B 
and C of the IDEA: Provided further, That the Secretary may use funds 
made available for the State Personnel Development Grants program under 
part D, subpart 1 of IDEA to evaluate program performance under such 
subpart: Provided further, That States may use funds reserved for other 
State-level activities under sections 611(e)(2) and 619(f) of the IDEA 
to make subgrants to local educational agencies, institutions of higher 
education, other public agencies, and private non-profit organizations 
to carry out activities authorized by those sections: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding section 643(e)(2)(A) of the IDEA, if 5 or fewer 
States apply for grants pursuant to section 643(e) of such Act, the 
Secretary shall provide a grant to each State in an amount equal to the 
maximum amount described in section 643(e)(2)(B) of such Act: Provided 
further, That if more than 5 States apply for grants pursuant to 
section 643(e) of the IDEA, the Secretary shall award funds to those 
States on the basis of the States' relative populations of infants and 
toddlers except that no such State shall receive a grant in excess of 
the amount described in section 643(e)(2)(B) of such Act.

                        Rehabilitation Services

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Helen Keller National Center Act, 
$3,752,076,000, of which $3,610,040,000 shall be for grants for 
vocational rehabilitation services under title I of the Rehabilitation 
Act: Provided, That the Secretary may use amounts provided in this Act 
that remain available subsequent to the reallotment of funds to States 
pursuant to section 110(b) of the Rehabilitation Act for innovative 
activities aimed at improving the outcomes of individuals with 
disabilities as defined in section 7(20)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act, 
including activities aimed at improving the education and post-school 
outcomes of children receiving Supplemental Security Income (``SSI'') 
and their families that may result in long-term improvement in the SSI 
child recipient's economic status and self-sufficiency: Provided 
further, That States may award subgrants for a portion of the funds to 
other public and private, nonprofit entities: Provided further, That 
any funds made available subsequent to reallotment for innovative 
activities aimed at improving the outcomes of individuals with 
disabilities shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act to Promote the Education of the Blind of 
March 3, 1879, $39,000,000.

               national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, $80,000,000: Provided, 
That from the total amount available, the Institute may at its 
discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized under 
section 207 of such Act.

                          gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986, $138,361,000: Provided, That from the total amount available, the 
University may at its discretion use funds for the endowment program as 
authorized under section 207 of such Act.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (Perkins Act), and 
the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA), $2,003,133,000 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), of which 
$1,212,133,000 shall become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021, and of which $791,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2020, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That of the amounts made available for 
the AEFLA, $13,712,000 shall be for national leadership activities 
under section 242.

                      Student Financial Assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 10 of part A, and part C of 
title IV of the HEA, $24,937,352,000, which shall remain available 
through September 30, 2021.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2020-2021 shall be $5,285.

                       Student Aid Administration

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of title I, 
and subparts 1, 3, 9, and 10 of part A, and parts B, C, D, and E of 
title IV of the HEA, and subpart 1 of part A of title VII of the Public 
Health Service Act, $1,678,943,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That the Secretary shall allocate new 
student loan borrower accounts to eligible student loan servicers on 
the basis of their past performance compared to all loan servicers, 
utilizing established common metrics, and on the basis of the capacity 
of each servicer to process new and existing accounts and compliance 
with Federal and State law: Provided further, That for student loan 
contracts awarded prior to October 1, 2017, the Secretary shall allow 
student loan borrowers who are consolidating Federal student loans to 
select from any student loan servicer to service their new consolidated 
student loan: Provided further, That in order to promote accountability 
and high-quality service to borrowers, the Secretary shall not award 
funding for any contract solicitation for a new Federal student loan 
servicing environment, including the solicitation for the FSA Next 
Generation Processing and Servicing Environment, unless such an 
environment provides for the participation of multiple student loan 
servicers that contract directly with the Department of Education: 
Provided further, That the FSA Next Generation Processing and Servicing 
Environment, or any new Federal student loan servicing environment, 
shall include accountability measures that account for the performance 
of the portfolio and contractor compliance with Federal Student Aid 
(FSA) guidelines: Provided further, That FSA shall ensure that 
contracts for the Next Generation Processing and Servicing Environment, 
or any new Federal loan servicing environment, incentivize more support 
to borrowers at risk of delinquency or default: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall provide quarterly briefings to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Education and Labor of the House of Representatives 
and the Committees on Appropriations and Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate on general progress related to solicitations for 
Federal student loan servicing contracts.

                            Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles II, 
III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the HEA, the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961, and section 117 of the Perkins Act, 
$2,748,533,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) 
(increased by $500,000): Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available in this Act to carry out title 
VI of the HEA and section 102(b)(6) of the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 may be used to support visits and study 
in foreign countries by individuals who are participating in advanced 
foreign language training and international studies in areas that are 
vital to United States national security and who plan to apply their 
language skills and knowledge of these countries in the fields of 
government, the professions, or international development: Provided 
further, That of the funds referred to in the preceding proviso up to 1 
percent may be used for program evaluation, national outreach, and 
information dissemination activities: Provided further, That up to 1.5 
percent of the funds made available under chapter 2 of subpart 2 of 
part A of title IV of the HEA may be used for evaluation.

                           Howard University

    For partial support of Howard University, $250,000,000, of which 
not less than $3,405,000 shall be for a matching endowment grant 
pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act and shall remain 
available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities related 
to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of the HEA, 
$435,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $20,150,000, as authorized 
pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, which shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $212,100,000: Provided 
further, That these funds may be used to support loans to public and 
private Historically Black Colleges and Universities without regard to 
the limitations within section 344(a) of the HEA.
    In addition, $20,000,000 shall be made available to provide for the 
deferment of loans made under part D of title III of the HEA to 
eligible institutions that are private Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, which apply for the deferment of such a loan and 
demonstrate financial need for such deferment by having a score of 2.6 
or less on the Department of Education's financial responsibility test: 
Provided, That during the period of deferment of such a loan, interest 
on the loan will not accrue or be capitalized, and the period of 
deferment shall be for at least a period of 3-fiscal years and not more 
than 6-fiscal years: Provided further, That funds available under this 
paragraph shall be used to fund eligible deferment requests submitted 
for this purpose in fiscal year 2018: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall create and execute an outreach plan to work with States 
and the Capital Financing Advisory Board to improve outreach to States 
and help additional public Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
participate in the program.
    In addition, $10,000,000 shall be made available to provide for the 
deferment of loans made under part D of title III of the HEA to 
eligible institutions that are public Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, which apply for the deferment of such a loan and 
demonstrate financial need for such deferment, which shall be 
determined by the Secretary of Education based on factors including, 
but not limited to, equal to or greater than 5 percent of the school's 
annual revenue from the previous fiscal year relative to its debt 
service: Provided, That during the period of deferment of such a loan, 
interest on the loan will not accrue or be capitalized, and the period 
of deferment shall be for at least a period of 3-fiscal years and not 
more than 6-fiscal years.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
entered into pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, $334,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Education Sciences 
Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of Educational Progress 
Authorization Act, section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance 
Act of 2002, and section 664 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, $650,000,000, which shall remain available through 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds available to carry out section 
208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act may be used to link 
Statewide elementary and secondary data systems with early childhood, 
postsecondary, and workforce data systems, or to further develop such 
systems: Provided further, That up to $6,000,000 of the funds available 
to carry out section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act 
may be used for awards to public or private organizations or agencies 
to support activities to improve data coordination, quality, and use at 
the local, State, and national levels.

                        Departmental Management

                         program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of three 
passenger motor vehicles, $430,000,000 (reduced by $500,000) (reduced 
by $500,000) (reduced by $5,000,000): Provided, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, none of the funds provided by this Act or 
provided by previous Appropriations Acts to the Department of Education 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year may 
be used for any activity relating to implementing a reorganization that 
decentralizes, reduces the staffing level, or alters the 
responsibilities, structure, authority, or functionality of the Budget 
Service of the Department of Education, relative to the organization 
and operation of the Budget Service as in effect on January 1, 2018.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $130,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $63,418,000 (increased by $4,000,000).

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 301.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to prevent 
the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in 
the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 302. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer: Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
shall be available only to meet emergency needs and shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act: Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 303.  Funds appropriated in this Act and consolidated for 
evaluation purposes under section 8601(c) of the ESEA shall be 
available from July 1, 2020, through September 30, 2021.
    Sec. 304. (a) An institution of higher education that maintains an 
endowment fund supported with funds appropriated for title III or V of 
the HEA for fiscal year 2020 may use the income from that fund to award 
scholarships to students, subject to the limitation in section 
331(c)(3)(B)(i) of the HEA. The use of such income for such purposes, 
prior to the enactment of this Act, shall be considered to have been an 
allowable use of that income, subject to that limitation.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall be in effect until titles III and V of the 
HEA are reauthorized.
    Sec. 305.  Section 114(f) of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1011c(f)) is 
amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.
    Sec. 306.  Section 458(a) of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1087h(a)) is 
amended in paragraph (4) by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.
    Sec. 307.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Student Aid Administration'' may be available for payments for 
student loan servicing to an institution of higher education that 
services outstanding Federal Perkins Loans under part E of title IV of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 308. Section 401(b)(7)(A)(iv)(X) of the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a(b)(7)(A)(iv)(X)) is amended by striking 
``$1,430,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,380,000,000''.
    Sec. 309. (a) An institution of higher education may, with explicit 
written consent of an applicant who has completed a FAFSA under such 
section 483(a), provide such information collected from the applicant's 
FAFSA as is necessary to a scholarship granting organization, including 
a tribal organization (defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)), or to an 
organization assisting the applicant in applying for and receiving 
Federal, State, local, or tribal assistance, that is designated by the 
applicant to assist the applicant in applying for and receiving 
financial assistance for any component of the applicant's cost of 
attendance (defined in section 472 of the HEA) at that institution.
    (b) An organization that receives information pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall not sell or otherwise share such information.
    (c) This section shall be in effect until title IV of the HEA is 
reauthorized.
    Sec. 310.  For an additional amount for ``Department of Education--
Federal Direct Student Loan Program Account'', $350,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for the cost, as defined under 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of the Secretary 
of Education providing loan cancellation in the same manner as under 
section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1087e(m)), for borrowers of loans made under part D of title IV of such 
Act who would qualify for loan cancellation under section 455(m) except 
some, or all, of the 120 required payments under section 455(m)(1)(A) 
do not qualify for purposes of the program because they were monthly 
payments made in accordance with graduated or extended repayment plans 
as described under subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 455(d)(1) or the 
corresponding repayment plan for a consolidation loan made under 
section 455(g) and that were less than the amount calculated under 
section 455(d)(1)(A), based on a 10-year repayment period: Provided, 
That the total loan volume, including outstanding principal, fees, 
capitalized interest, or accrued interest, at application that is 
eligible for such loan cancellation by such borrowers shall not exceed 
$500,000,000: Provided further, That the Secretary shall develop and 
make available a simple method for borrowers to apply for loan 
cancellation under this section within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide loan 
cancellation under this section to eligible borrowers on a first-come, 
first-serve basis, based on the date of application and subject to both 
the limitation on total loan volume at application for such loan 
cancellation specified in the first proviso and the availability of 
appropriations under this section: Provided further, That no borrower 
may, for the same service, receive a reduction of loan obligations 
under both this section and section 428J, 428K, 428L, or 460 of such 
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary shall inform all borrowers 
who have submitted an Employment Certification Form and are in the 
incorrect repayment program about the Temporary Expanded Public Service 
Loan Forgiveness Program and requirements for qualification under the 
program.
    Sec. 311.  Of the amounts made available under this title under the 
heading ``Student Aid Administration'', $2,300,000 shall be used by the 
Secretary of Education to conduct outreach to borrowers of loans made 
under part D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 who may 
intend to qualify for loan cancellation under section 455(m) of such 
Act (20 U.S.C. 1087e(m)), to ensure that borrowers are meeting the 
terms and conditions of such loan cancellation: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall specifically conduct outreach to assist borrowers who 
would qualify for loan cancellation under section 455(m) of such Act 
except that the borrower has made some, or all, of the 120 required 
payments under a repayment plan that is not described under section 
455(m)(A) of such Act, to encourage borrowers to enroll in a qualifying 
repayment plan: Provided further, That the Secretary shall also 
communicate to all Direct Loan borrowers the full requirements of 
section 455(m) of such Act and improve the filing of employment 
certification by providing improved outreach and information such as 
outbound calls, electronic communications, ensuring prominent access to 
program requirements and benefits on each servicer's website, and 
creating an option for all borrowers to complete the entire payment 
certification process electronically and on a centralized website.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (referred to in this title as ``the 
Committee'') established under section 8502 of title 41, United States 
Code, $9,000,000: Provided, That in order to authorize any central 
nonprofit agency designated pursuant to section 8503(c) of title 41, 
United States Code, to perform requirements of the Committee as 
prescribed under section 51-3.2 of title 41, Code of Federal 
Regulations, the Committee shall enter into a written agreement with 
any such central nonprofit agency: Provided further, That such 
agreement shall contain such auditing, oversight, and reporting 
provisions as necessary to implement chapter 85 of title 41, United 
States Code: Provided further, That such agreement shall include the 
elements listed under the heading ``Committee For Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled--Written Agreement Elements'' in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 of Public Law 114-113 (in 
the matter preceding division A of that consolidated Act): Provided 
further, That any such central nonprofit agency may not charge a fee 
under section 51-3.5 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations, prior to 
executing a written agreement with the Committee: Provided further, 
That no less than $1,650,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Inspector General.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in this title as ``CNCS'') to carry out 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (referred to in this title 
as ``1973 Act'') and the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(referred to in this title as ``1990 Act''), $829,665,000, 
notwithstanding sections 198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 501(a)(4)(C), and 
501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act: Provided, That of the amounts provided 
under this heading: (1) up to 1 percent of program grant funds may be 
used to defray the costs of conducting grant application reviews, 
including the use of outside peer reviewers and electronic management 
of the grants cycle; (2) $17,538,000 shall be available to provide 
assistance to State commissions on national and community service, 
under section 126(a) of the 1990 Act and notwithstanding section 
501(a)(5)(B) of the 1990 Act; (3) $33,000,000 shall be available to 
carry out subtitle E of the 1990 Act; and (4) $6,400,000 shall be 
available for expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4)(F) of the 
1990 Act, which, notwithstanding the provisions of section 198P shall 
be awarded by CNCS on a competitive basis: Provided further, That for 
the purposes of carrying out the 1990 Act, satisfying the requirements 
in section 122(c)(1)(D) may include a determination of need by the 
local community.

                 payment to the national service trust

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the National Service Trust established under 
subtitle D of title I of the 1990 Act, $218,691,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That CNCS may transfer additional 
funds from the amount provided within ``Operating Expenses'' allocated 
to grants under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act to the National 
Service Trust upon determination that such transfer is necessary to 
support the activities of national service participants and after 
notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That amounts 
appropriated for or transferred to the National Service Trust may be 
invested under section 145(b) of the 1990 Act without regard to the 
requirement to apportion funds under 31 U.S.C. 1513(b).

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administration as provided under section 
501(a)(5) of the 1990 Act and under section 504(a) of the 1973 Act, 
including payment of salaries, authorized travel, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia, the employment of experts and consultants authorized under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $83,737,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $6,013,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 401.  CNCS shall make any significant changes to program 
requirements, service delivery or policy only through public notice and 
comment rulemaking. For fiscal year 2020, during any grant selection 
process, an officer or employee of CNCS shall not knowingly disclose 
any covered grant selection information regarding such selection, 
directly or indirectly, to any person other than an officer or employee 
of CNCS that is authorized by CNCS to receive such information.
    Sec. 402.  AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the National 
Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum share requirement 
of 24 percent for the first 3 years that they receive AmeriCorps 
funding, and thereafter shall meet the overall minimum share 
requirement as provided in section 2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, without regard to the operating costs match requirement in 
section 121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
section 140 of the 1990 Act, and subject to partial waiver consistent 
with section 2521.70 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 403.  Donations made to CNCS under section 196 of the 1990 Act 
for the purposes of financing programs and operations under titles I 
and II of the 1973 Act or subtitle B, C, D, or E of title I of the 1990 
Act shall be used to supplement and not supplant current programs and 
operations.
    Sec. 404.  In addition to the requirements in section 146(a) of the 
1990 Act, use of an educational award for the purpose described in 
section 148(a)(4) shall be limited to individuals who are veterans as 
defined under section 101 of the Act.
    Sec. 405.  For the purpose of carrying out section 189D of the 1990 
Act--
            (1) entities described in paragraph (a) of such section 
        shall be considered ``qualified entities'' under section 3 of 
        the National Child Protection Act of 1993 (``NCPA'');
            (2) individuals described in such section shall be 
        considered ``volunteers'' under section 3 of NCPA; and
            (3) State Commissions on National and Community Service 
        established pursuant to section 178 of the 1990 Act, are 
        authorized to receive criminal history record information, 
        consistent with Public Law 92-544.
    Sec. 406.  Notwithstanding sections 139(b), 146 and 147 of the 1990 
Act, an individual who successfully completes a term of service of not 
less than 1,200 hours during a period of not more than 1 year may 
receive a national service education award having a value of 70 percent 
of the value of a national service education award determined under 
section 147(a) of the Act.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (``CPB''), 
as authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall 
be available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal 
year 2022, $495,000,000: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available to CPB by this Act shall be used to pay for receptions, 
parties, or similar forms of entertainment for Government officials or 
employees: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
CPB by this Act shall be available or used to aid or support any 
program or activity from which any person is excluded, or is denied 
benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to CPB by this Act shall be used to apply any 
political test or qualification in selecting, appointing, promoting, or 
taking any other personnel action with respect to officers, agents, and 
employees of CPB.
    In addition, for the costs associated with replacing and upgrading 
the public broadcasting interconnection system and other technologies 
and services that create infrastructure and efficiencies within the 
public media system, $20,000,000.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service (``Service'') to carry out the functions vested in it by the 
Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, including hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation 
Act of 1978; and for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out 
the functions vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, 
$48,200,000, including up to $900,000 to remain available through 
September 30, 2021, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management 
Cooperation Act of 1978: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, for special training activities 
and other conflict resolution services and technical assistance, 
including those provided to foreign governments and international 
organizations, and for arbitration services shall be credited to and 
merged with this account, and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That fees for arbitration services shall be available 
only for education, training, and professional development of the 
agency workforce: Provided further, That the Director of the Service is 
authorized to accept and use on behalf of the United States gifts of 
services and real, personal, or other property in the aid of any 
projects or functions within the Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $17,184,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    office of museum and library services: grants and administration

    For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 1996 and 
the National Museum of African American History and Culture Act, 
$267,000,000.

            Medicaid and Chip Payment and Access Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1900 of the Social 
Security Act, $8,480,000.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $12,645,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                     National Council on Disability

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, $3,450,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, and other laws, $341,500,000.

                        National Mediation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by the President, 
$15,800,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $13,225,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                     dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $16,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2020 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds the amount 
available for payment of vested dual benefits: Provided, That the total 
amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 approximately equal 
amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal year.

          federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2021, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.

                      limitation on administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board 
(``Board'') for administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the 
Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, $135,500,000, to be derived in 
such amounts as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement 
accounts and from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment 
insurance administration fund: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
7(b)(9) of the Railroad Retirement Act this limitation may be used to 
hire attorneys only through the excepted service: Provided further, 
That the previous proviso shall not change the status under Federal 
employment laws of any attorney hired by the Railroad Retirement Board 
prior to January 1, 2013: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 7(b)(9) of the Railroad Retirement Act, this limitation may be 
used to hire students attending qualifying educational institutions or 
individuals who have recently completed qualifying educational programs 
using current excepted hiring authorities established by the Office of 
Personnel Management: Provided further, That $13,460,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be used to supplement, not supplant, 
existing resources devoted to operations and improvements for the 
Board's Information Technology Investment Initiatives.

             limitation on the office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than $11,500,000, to be derived 
from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad unemployment 
insurance account.

                     Social Security Administration

                payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 201(m) and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, $11,000,000.

                  supplemental security income program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$41,938,540,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury: Provided further, That not more than $101,000,000 shall be 
available for research and demonstrations under sections 1110, 1115, 
and 1144 of the Social Security Act, and remain available through 
September 30, 2022.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, $19,900,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $20,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $12,940,945,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to in such section: Provided, 
That $2,400,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory Board: 
Provided further, That $45,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for information technology modernization, including related 
hardware and software infrastructure and equipment, and for 
administrative expenses directly associated with information technology 
modernization: Provided further, That $50,000,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021, for activities to address the 
disability hearings backlog within the Office of Hearings Operations: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances of funds provided under 
this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2020 not needed for fiscal 
year 2020 shall remain available until expended to invest in the Social 
Security Administration information technology and telecommunications 
hardware and software infrastructure, including related equipment and 
non-payroll administrative expenses associated solely with this 
information technology and telecommunications infrastructure: Provided 
further, That the Commissioner of Social Security shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate prior to making unobligated balances available under the 
authority in the previous proviso: Provided further, That reimbursement 
to the trust funds under this heading for expenditures for official 
time for employees of the Social Security Administration pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 7131, and for facilities or support services for labor 
organizations pursuant to policies, regulations, or procedures referred 
to in section 7135(b) of such title shall be made by the Secretary of 
the Treasury, with interest, from amounts in the general fund not 
otherwise appropriated, as soon as possible after such expenditures are 
made.
    Of the total amount made available in the first paragraph under 
this heading, not more than $1,582,000,000, to remain available through 
March 31, 2021, is for the costs associated with continuing disability 
reviews under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act, including 
work-related continuing disability reviews to determine whether 
earnings derived from services demonstrate an individual's ability to 
engage in substantial gainful activity, for the cost associated with 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, for the cost of co-operative disability 
investigation units, and for the cost associated with the prosecution 
of fraud in the programs and operations of the Social Security 
Administration by Special Assistant United States Attorneys: Provided, 
That, of such amount, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of 
section 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $1,309,000,000 is 
additional new budget authority specified for purposes of section 
251(b)(2)(B) of such Act: Provided further, That, of the additional new 
budget authority described in the preceding proviso, up to $10,000,000 
may be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'', Social 
Security Administration, for the cost of jointly operated co-operative 
disability investigation units: Provided further, That such transfer 
authority is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
law: Provided further, That the Commissioner shall provide to the 
Congress (at the conclusion of the fiscal year) a report on the 
obligation and expenditure of these funds, similar to the reports that 
were required by section 103(d)(2) of Public Law 104-121 for fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002.
    In addition, $130,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended: Provided, That to 
the extent that the amounts collected pursuant to such sections in 
fiscal year 2020 exceed $130,000,000, the amounts shall be available in 
fiscal year 2021 only to the extent provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees collected 
pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security Protection Act, which 
shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$30,000,000, together with not to exceed $75,500,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available: Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
15 days in advance of any transfer.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act. Such transferred balances shall be used for the 
same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they were 
originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used, other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the 
preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, electronic communication, radio, television, or video 
presentation designed to support or defeat the enactment of legislation 
before the Congress or any State or local legislature or legislative 
body, except in presentation to the Congress or any State or local 
legislature itself, or designed to support or defeat any proposed or 
pending regulation, administrative action, or order issued by the 
executive branch of any State or local government, except in 
presentation to the executive branch of any State or local government 
itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence the enactment of legislation, appropriations, regulation, 
administrative action, or Executive order proposed or pending before 
the Congress or any State government, State legislature or local 
legislature or legislative body, other than for normal and recognized 
executive-legislative relationships or participation by an agency or 
officer of a State, local or tribal government in policymaking and 
administrative processes within the executive branch of that 
government.
    (c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) shall include any 
activity to advocate or promote any proposed, pending or future 
Federal, State or local tax increase, or any proposed, pending, or 
future requirement or restriction on any legal consumer product, 
including its sale or marketing, including but not limited to the 
advocacy or promotion of gun control.
    Sec. 504.  The Secretaries of Labor and Education are authorized to 
make available not to exceed $28,000 and $20,000, respectively, from 
funds available for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, 
respectively, for official reception and representation expenses; the 
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is 
authorized to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for ``Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and Expenses''; and the 
Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $5,000 from funds available for ``National Mediation Board, 
Salaries and Expenses''.
    Sec. 505.  When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state--
            (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or 
        project which will be financed with Federal money;
            (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
        program; and
            (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
        project or program that will be financed by non-governmental 
        sources.
    Sec. 506. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none 
of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this 
Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 507. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
        life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
        the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a physician, 
        place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be made 
available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State or local 
government, if such agency, program, or government subjects any 
institutional or individual health care entity to discrimination on the 
basis that the health care entity does not provide, pay for, provide 
coverage of, or refer for abortions.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' includes an 
individual physician or other health care professional, a hospital, a 
provider-sponsored organization, a health maintenance organization, a 
health insurance plan, or any other kind of health care facility, 
organization, or plan.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
        purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury 
        or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in 
        utero under 45 CFR 46.204(b) and section 498(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for any activity that promotes the legalization of any drug or 
other substance included in schedule I of the schedules of controlled 
substances established under section 202 of the Controlled Substances 
Act except for normal and recognized executive-congressional 
communications.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when there is 
significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to the use of 
such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored clinical 
trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
        States and is subject to the requirement in 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) 
        regarding submission of an annual report to the Secretary of 
        Labor concerning employment of certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
        that section for the most recent year for which such 
        requirement was applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available by this Act to carry 
out the Library Services and Technology Act may be made available to 
any library covered by paragraph (1) of section 224(f) of such Act, as 
amended by the Children's Internet Protection Act, unless such library 
has made the certifications required by paragraph (4) of such section.
    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2020, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
        construction projects), or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    (c) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure that--
            (1) relocates an office or employees;
            (2) reorganizes or renames offices; or
            (3) reorganizes programs or activities;
unless the relocation, renaming, or reorganization was included in the 
President's fiscal year 2020 budget proposal, including the 
accompanying justification documents submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and such 
committees are consulted at least 15 days in advance of such 
relocation, renaming, or reorganization.
    Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to request that a candidate for appointment to a Federal 
scientific advisory committee disclose the political affiliation or 
voting history of the candidate or the position that the candidate 
holds with respect to political issues not directly related to and 
necessary for the work of the committee involved.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
disseminate information that is deliberately false or misleading.
    Sec. 515.  Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each department 
and related agency funded through this Act shall submit an operating 
plan that details at the program, project, and activity level any 
funding allocations for fiscal year 2020 that are different than those 
specified in this Act, the accompanying detailed table in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act or the fiscal year 2020 
budget request.
    Sec. 516.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education shall each prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
on the number and amount of contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements exceeding $500,000, individually or in total at the program, 
project, or activity level, in value and awarded by the Department on a 
non-competitive basis during each quarter of fiscal year 2020, but not 
to include grants awarded on a formula basis or directed by law. Such 
report shall include the name of the contractor or grantee, the amount 
of funding, the governmental purpose, including a justification for 
issuing the award on a non-competitive basis. Such report shall be 
transmitted to the Committees within 30 days after the end of the 
quarter for which the report is submitted.
    Sec. 517.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
expended or obligated by the Commissioner of Social Security, for 
purposes of administering Social Security benefit payments under title 
II of the Social Security Act, to process any claim for credit for a 
quarter of coverage based on work performed under a social security 
account number that is not the claimant's number and the performance of 
such work under such number has formed the basis for a conviction of 
the claimant of a violation of section 208(a)(6) or (7) of the Social 
Security Act.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Commissioner of Social Security or the Social Security 
Administration to pay the compensation of employees of the Social 
Security Administration to administer Social Security benefit payments, 
under any agreement between the United States and Mexico establishing 
totalization arrangements between the social security system 
established by title II of the Social Security Act and the social 
security system of Mexico, which would not otherwise be payable but for 
such agreement.
    Sec. 519. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 520.  For purposes of carrying out Executive Order No. 13589, 
Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012, 
and requirements contained in the annual appropriations bills relating 
to conference attendance and expenditures:
            (1) the operating divisions of HHS shall be considered 
        independent agencies; and
            (2) attendance at and support for scientific conferences 
        shall be tabulated separately from and not included in agency 
        totals.
    Sec. 521.  Federal agencies funded under this Act shall clearly 
state within the text, audio, or video used for advertising or 
educational purposes, including emails or Internet postings, that the 
communication is printed, published, or produced and disseminated at 
U.S. taxpayer expense. The funds used by a Federal agency to carry out 
this requirement shall be derived from amounts made available to the 
agency for advertising or other communications regarding the programs 
and activities of the agency.
    Sec. 522. (a) Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary funds 
that are made available in this Act to carry out up to 10 Performance 
Partnership Pilots. Such Pilots shall be governed by the provisions of 
section 526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, except that in carrying 
out such Pilots section 526 shall be applied by substituting ``Fiscal 
Year 2020'' for ``Fiscal Year 2014'' in the title of subsection (b) and 
by substituting ``September 30, 2024'' for ``September 30, 2018'' each 
place it appears: Provided, That such pilots shall include communities 
that have experienced civil unrest.
    (b) In addition, Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary 
funds that are made available in this Act to participate in Performance 
Partnership Pilots that are being carried out pursuant to the authority 
provided by section 526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 
of division G of Public Law 113-235, section 525 of division H of 
Public Law 114-113, section 525 of division H of Public Law 115-31, and 
section 525 of division H of Public Law 115-141.
    (c) Pilot sites selected under authorities in this Act and prior 
appropriations Acts may be granted by relevant agencies up to an 
additional 5 years to operate under such authorities.
    Sec. 523.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, beginning with the first month of fiscal year 2020, the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and the 
Social Security Administration shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate a report on 
the status of balances of appropriations: Provided, That for balances 
that are unobligated and uncommitted, committed, and obligated but 
unexpended, the monthly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
attributable to each source year of appropriation (beginning with 
fiscal year 2012, or, to the extent feasible, earlier fiscal years) 
from which balances were derived.
    Sec. 524.  Of the unobligated balances made available for purposes 
of carrying out section 2105(a)(3) of the Social Security Act, 
$7,715,000,000 shall not be available for obligation in this fiscal 
year.
    Sec. 525. (a)(1) The Secretary of Homeland Security, after 
appropriate consultation with the Secretary of Labor and appropriate 
employers, shall develop, through notice and comment rulemaking, a 
process to provide quarterly allocation of visas issued pursuant to 
petitions submitted by employers for individuals to be admitted under 
section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b)).
    (2) In developing the process described in paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall ensure that--
            (A) all such petitions are submitted to the Secretary not 
        later than 45 days before the first day of the quarter during 
        which the requested beneficiaries are expected to begin their 
        employment with the employer; and
            (B) all decisions to approve or deny a petition are made 
        not later than 15 days before the first date of employment 
        specified in the petition.
    (b) Subject to subsection (c), for fiscal year 2021, and every 
fiscal year thereafter, of the visas authorized under section 
214(g)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1184(g)(1)(B)), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue--
            (1) not more than 14 percent to aliens whose employment is 
        scheduled to begin during the first quarter of the fiscal year;
            (2) not more than 45 percent (plus any visas authorized, 
        but not issued, under paragraph (1)) to aliens whose employment 
        is scheduled to begin during the second quarter of the fiscal 
        year;
            (3) not more than 39 percent (plus any visas authorized, 
        but not issued, under paragraphs (1) and (2)) to aliens whose 
        employment is scheduled to begin during the third quarter of 
        the fiscal year; and
            (4) not more than 2 percent (plus any visas authorized, but 
        not issued, under paragraph (1), (2), and (3)) to aliens whose 
        employment is scheduled to begin during the fourth quarter of 
        the fiscal year.
    (c) Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
in the Secretary's sole and unreviewable discretion, and after 
consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall--
            (1) compare the quarterly allocation of visas under 
        subsection (b) to the actual need for individuals to be 
        admitted under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b)) in each 
        quarter; and
            (2) adjust the quarterly allocation of such visas 
        accordingly.
    (d) For each calendar quarter subject to the visa allocation 
process set forth in subsection (b) or (c), if the total number of 
visas requested by employers whose petitions meet the standards for 
approval exceeds the total number of visas available for such 
employers, the Secretary shall ensure that each such petition is 
approved for a minimum number of visas, which shall be calculated based 
on the ratio between the total number of visas requested by such 
employers and the total number of visas available.
    (e) Effective October 1, 2020, section 214(g)(10) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(10)) is repealed.
    (f) Section 214(c)(14)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1184(c)(14)(C)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(C) In determining the level of penalties to be assessed under 
subparagraph (A), the highest penalties shall be reserved for--
            ``(i) willful failures to meet any of the conditions of the 
        petition that involve harm to United States workers; and
            ``(ii) willful misrepresentations of the number of 
        necessary nonimmigrants in an application for temporary labor 
        certification in support of a petition for nonimmigrants 
        described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b).''.
    Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to replace or diminish the quality of care provided by Medicare 
Advantage (as established in title 42, chapter 7, subchapter XVIII, 
part C of the United States Code) and the TRICARE program (as defined 
in section 1072 of title 10 of the United States Code).
    Sec. 527.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 528.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-62. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 529.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize or implement the proposed rule entitled ``Occupational 
Exposure to Beryllium and Beryllium Compounds in Construction and 
Shipyard Sectors'' published by the Department of Labor in the Federal 
Register on June 27, 2017 (82 Fed Reg. 29182 et seq.).
    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) alter or terminate the Interagency Agreement between 
        the United States Department of Labor and the United States 
        Department of Agriculture governing the funding, establishment, 
        and operation of Job Corps Civilian Conservation Centers (or 
        any agreement of the same substance); or
            (2) close any of the following Civilian Conservation 
        Centers:
                    (A) Angell Job Corps Civilian Conversation Center.
                    (B) Boxelder Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (C) Centennial Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (D) Collbran Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (E) Columbia Basin Job Corps Basin Civilian 
                Conservation Center.
                    (F) Curlew Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center.
                    (G) Great Onyx Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (H) Harpers Ferry Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (I) Lyndon B. Johnson Job Corps Civilian 
                Conservation Center.
                    (J) Jacobs Creek Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (K) Mingo Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center.
                    (L) Pine Ridge Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (M) Schenck Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center.
                    (N) Trapper Creek Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (O) Weber Basin Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (P) Wolf Creek Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (Q) Anaconda Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (R) Blackwell Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (S) Cass Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center.
                    (T) Flatwoods Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (U) Fort Simcoe Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (V) Frenchburg Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (W) Oconaluftee Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (X) Pine Knot Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
                    (Y) Timber Lake Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
                Center.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the rule entitled ``Short-Term, 
Limited Duration Insurance'' published by the Department of the 
Treasury, the Department of Labor, and the Department of Health and 
Human Services in the Federal Register on August 3, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 
38212).
    Sec. 532.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 203 of the Department of Education 
Organization Act (20 U.S.C. 3413).
    Sec. 533.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to convene an ethics advisory board authorized under section 492A of 
the Public Health Service Act with regard to research grant 
applications or current research projects in the competitive renewal 
process that propose to use human fetal tissue.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2020''.

       DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, for military functions administered by the 
Department of Defense and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Army on active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $42,314,762,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Navy on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $31,679,229,000 
(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000).

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Marine Corps on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided 
for elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 
97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund, $14,064,751,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Air Force on active duty (except members of reserve components 
provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of 
the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $31,082,769,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 10211, 10302, and 7038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, $4,847,321,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on 
active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty, and expenses authorized by 
section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $2,113,357,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for 
members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$829,124,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 10211, 10305, and 9038 of title 10, United States Code, 
or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in 
section 12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, 
United States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
Military Retirement Fund, $1,993,280,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under section 10211, 10302, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of 
title 32, United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 
12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$8,664,535,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
section 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$4,032,521,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law, 
$41,449,293,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000): 
Provided, That not to exceed $12,478,000 can be used for emergencies 
and extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or 
authority of the Secretary of the Army, and payments may be made on his 
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law, $51,417,389,000 (reduced by $4,300,000) (increased 
by $4,300,000) (reduced by $3,000,000): Provided, That not to exceed 
$15,055,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to 
be expended upon the approval or authority of the Secretary of the 
Navy, and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law, 
$7,945,854,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law, 
$44,662,729,000 (increased by $8,500,000) (reduced by $3,000,000): 
Provided, That not to exceed $7,699,000 can be used for emergencies and 
extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his 
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Space Force

     For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to study and 
refine plans for the potential establishment of a Space Force as a 
branch of the Armed Forces, $15,000,000 (reduced by $1,500,000): 
Provided, That nothing in this provision shall be construed to 
authorize the establishment of a Space Force.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law, 
$37,238,522,000 (increased by $4,356,000) (reduced by $4,356,000) 
(increased by $200,000) (reduced by $200,000) (reduced by $8,500,000) 
(reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $6,000,000) (reduced by 
$7,700,000) (reduced by $20,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $16,000,000) (reduced by 
$8,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $4,000,000) (reduced by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced 
by $3,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $9,000,000) (reduced by $500,000) (increased by $500,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$13,000,000) (increased by $13,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000): 
Provided, That not more than $6,859,000 may be used for the Combatant 
Commander Initiative Fund authorized under section 166a of title 10, 
United States Code: Provided further, That not to exceed $36,000,000 
can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended 
on the approval or authority of the Secretary of Defense, and payments 
may be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, not less than $44,500,000 shall be made available for the 
Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program, of 
which not less than $4,500,000 shall be available for centers defined 
in 10 U.S.C. 2411(1)(D): Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to 
plan or implement the consolidation of a budget or appropriations 
liaison office of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the office of 
the Secretary of a military department, or the service headquarters of 
one of the Armed Forces into a legislative affairs or legislative 
liaison office: Provided further, That $17,732,000, to remain available 
until expended, is available only for expenses relating to certain 
classified activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the 
Secretary of Defense to operation and maintenance appropriations or 
research, development, test and evaluation appropriations, to be merged 
with and to be available for the same time period as the appropriations 
to which transferred: Provided further, That any ceiling on the 
investment item unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation 
and maintenance funds shall not apply to the funds described in the 
preceding proviso: Provided further, That of the funds provided under 
this heading, $623,073,000, of which $155,768,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, shall be available to provide support and 
assistance to foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to 
conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or 
other Department of Defense security cooperation programs: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this 
Act: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading for the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Policy, 10 percent 
shall be withheld from obligation until the Secretary of Defense 
submits the reports required under the heading ``Counter-ISIS Train and 
Equip Fund'' in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2018 
(division C of Public Law 115-141) and the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2019 (division A of Public Law 115-245).

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $3,009,594,000 (increased by 
$2,000,000).

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $1,110,116,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $294,076,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $3,356,685,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized 
by law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft), $7,448,536,000 (increased 
by $2,000,000).

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Air 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; transportation of things, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; supplying and equipping the Air National 
Guard, as authorized by law; expenses for repair, modification, 
maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment, including those 
furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department 
of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same basis as 
authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on active Federal 
duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting units in 
compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when specifically 
authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau, $6,592,589,000 (reduced 
by $2,500,000) (increased by $2,500,000).

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces, $14,771,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be used for official representation purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $235,809,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000), to remain available until transferred: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds 
made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made 
available to the Department of the Army, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred: Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this 
Act.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Navy, $365,883,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000), to remain available until transferred: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Navy shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds 
made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made 
available to the Department of the Navy, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred: Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this 
Act.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Air Force, $365,808,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000), to remain available until transferred: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Air Force, or for similar purposes, transfer the 
funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made 
available to the Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred: Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this 
Act.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of Defense, $19,002,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of Defense, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided elsewhere in this Act.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $260,499,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris at sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided elsewhere in this Act.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense (consisting of the 
programs provided under sections 401, 402, 404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of 
title 10, United States Code), $117,663,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                  Cooperative Threat Reduction Account

    For assistance, including assistance provided by contract or by 
grants, under programs and activities of the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authorized under the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act, $353,700,000 (increased by 
$20,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2022.

      Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund

    For the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
Fund, $400,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2020: Provided, That no other amounts may be otherwise credited or 
transferred to the Fund, or deposited into the Fund, in fiscal year 
2019 pursuant to section 1705(d) of title 10, United States Code.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $3,689,720,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $3,218,272,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
$4,849,373,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $2,583,895,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked combat vehicles; 
the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; 
communications and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare 
parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
$7,583,678,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public 
and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway, $18,971,913,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2022.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and related 
support equipment including spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $4,061,797,000 (reduced by 
$7,500,000) (increased by $7,500,000), to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $848,782,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and 
armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and 
installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of 
critical, long lead time components and designs for vessels to be 
constructed or converted in the future; and expansion of public and 
private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title, as follows:
     Ohio Replacement Submarine (AP), $1,611,989,000;
     Carrier Replacement Program, $2,066,000,000;
     Virginia Class Submarine, $4,192,346,000;
    Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $4,266,552,000;
    CVN Refueling Overhauls, $667,926,000;
     CVN Refueling Overhauls (AP), $16,900,000;
     DDG-1000 Program, $155,944,000;
     DDG-51 Destroyer, $5,015,295,000;
     DDG-51 Destroyer (AP), $224,028,000;
     FFG-Frigate, $1,281,177,000;
     TAO Fleet Oiler, $981,215,000;
     TAO Fleet Oiler (AP), $73,000,000;
     Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship, $150,282,000;
     LCU 1700, $83,670,000;
     Ship to Shore Connector, $65,000,000;
     Service Craft, $56,289,000;
     For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first destination 
transportation, $736,243,000; and
     Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs, $55,700,000.
    In all: $21,699,556,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2024: Provided, That additional obligations may be 
incurred after September 30, 2024, for engineering services, tests, 
evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the 
final stage of ship construction: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading for the construction or conversion of 
any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards in the United States 
shall be expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major 
components of such vessel: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be used for the construction of any 
naval vessel in foreign shipyards: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for production of 
the common missile compartment of nuclear-powered vessels may be 
available for multiyear procurement of critical components to support 
continuous production of such compartments only in accordance with the 
provisions of subsection (i) of section 2218a of title 10, United 
States Code (as added by section 1023 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328)).

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except 
ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for 
conversion); the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only; expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $9,123,068,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles 
for the Marine Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public and private 
plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests 
therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title, $2,838,151,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2022.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things, $18,082,933,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of 
land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,789,287,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of spacecraft, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of 
land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,368,443,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $1,602,761,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon, prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $21,067,888,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000), to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments) necessary for 
procurement, production, and modification of equipment, supplies, 
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of 
public and private plants, equipment, and installation thereof in such 
plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land for the 
foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway, $5,100,866,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to sections 
108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $64,393,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$12,046,783,000 (increased by $4,800,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $4,000,000) (increased by $2,500,000) (increased by 
$9,000,000), to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2021.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$19,140,865,000 (increased by $8,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$10,000,000), to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2021. Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph which are 
available for the V-22 may be used to meet unique operational 
requirements of the Special Operations Forces.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$44,554,256,000 (reduced by $9,500,000) (increased by $9,500,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments), necessary for basic and 
applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced 
research projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary 
of Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment, $24,492,308,000 (reduced by 
$10,000,000) (reduced by $4,800,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced 
by $4,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000) (increased by $1,500,000) 
(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $6,000,000) (increased by 
$3,000,000) (reduced by $2,500,000) (increased by $3,000,000) (reduced 
by $10,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and 
Evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational test and 
evaluation, including initial operational test and evaluation which is 
conducted prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint 
operational testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in 
connection therewith, $221,200,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2021.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,226,211,000.

  Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Working Capital Fund

     For the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Working 
Capital Fund, $200,000,000.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense as authorized by law, 
$33,476,039,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000); of which 
$31,359,442,000, shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not 
to exceed 1 percent shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021, and of which up to $15,176,945,000 may be available 
for contracts entered into under the TRICARE program; of which 
$454,324,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022, shall be for procurement; and of which $1,662,273,000 (increased 
by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021, shall be for research, development, test and 
evaluation: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
of the amount made available under this heading for research, 
development, test and evaluation, not less than $8,000,000 shall be 
available for HIV prevention educational activities undertaken in 
connection with United States military training, exercises, and 
humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in African 
nations: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not less than 
$930,000,000 (increased by $10,000,000) shall be made available to the 
United States Army Medical Research and Materiel Command to carry out 
the congressionally directed medical research programs: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the House and 
Senate Appropriations Committees quarterly reports on the current 
status of the deployment of the electronic health record: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide notice to the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees not later than 10 business 
days after delaying the proposed timeline of such deployment if such 
delay is longer than 1 week: Provided further, That the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall perform quarterly performance 
reviews of such deployment.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents 
and munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $985,499,000, of which $107,351,000 shall be 
for operation and maintenance, of which no less than $52,452,000 shall 
be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program, 
consisting of $22,444,000 for activities on military installations and 
$30,008,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, to assist 
State and local governments; $2,218,000 shall be for procurement, to 
remain available until September 30, 2022, of which not less than 
$2,218,000 shall be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness 
Program to assist State and local governments; and $875,930,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for research, 
development, test and evaluation, of which $869,430,000 shall only be 
for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
operation and maintenance; for procurement; and for research, 
development, test and evaluation, $816,755,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) 
(increased by $3,000,000), of which $517,171,000 shall be for counter-
narcotics support; $121,922,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by 
$3,000,000) shall be for the drug demand reduction program; 
$172,291,000 shall be for the National Guard counter-drug program; and 
$5,371,000 shall be for the National Guard counter-drug schools 
program: Provided, That the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available for obligation for the same time period and for the same 
purpose as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
That upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred 
from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
heading is in addition to any other transfer authority contained 
elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That section 284 of title 10, 
United States Code, may only be carried out using amounts appropriated 
under this heading for counter-narcotics support: Provided further, 
That amounts appropriated under this heading for counter-narcotics 
support may not be used for the construction of fences pursuant to 
subsection (b)(7) of such section: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority contained in section 8005 in title VIII of this Act shall not 
apply to amounts made available under this heading: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under this heading for counter-narcotics 
support may only be transferred 15 days following written notification 
to the congressional defense committees.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $363,499,000, of which $360,201,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $700,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on the 
Inspector General's certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes; of which $333,000 to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022, shall be for procurement; and of which $2,965,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for research, 
development, test and evaluation.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding level for 
continuing the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
and Disability System, $514,000,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account

    For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community Management 
Account, $558,000,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by 
the Congress.
    Sec. 8002.  During the current fiscal year, provisions of law 
prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any 
person not a citizen of the United States shall not apply to personnel 
of the Department of Defense: Provided, That salary increases granted 
to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees of the 
Department of Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in 
excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host 
nation to its own employees, whichever is higher: Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to Department of Defense foreign 
service national employees serving at United States diplomatic missions 
whose pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980: Provided further, That the limitations of this provision 
shall not apply to foreign national employees of the Department of 
Defense in the Republic of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004.  No more than 20 percent of the appropriations in this 
Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year 
shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the fiscal year: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations for support 
of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training 
of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8005.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the 
approval of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
a total of $1,000,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of 
Defense or funds made available in this Act to the Department of 
Defense for military functions (except military construction) between 
such appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged 
with and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, 
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless the Secretary of 
Defense and the head of each entity affected by such transfer certifies 
in writing to the congressional defense committees, as part of the 
applicable request for reprogramming required for such transfer, that 
the funds will be used for higher priority items, based on unforeseen 
military requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and 
in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied 
by the Congress: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this 
authority or any other authority in this Act: Provided further, That no 
part of the funds in this Act shall be available to prepare or present 
a request to the Committees on Appropriations for reprogramming of 
funds, unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen military 
requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and in no 
case where the item for which reprogramming is requested has been 
denied by the Congress: Provided further, That a request for multiple 
reprogrammings of funds using authority provided in this section shall 
be made prior to June 30, 2020.
    Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific programs, 
projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts and adjustments to 
budget activities corresponding to such programs, projects, and 
activities) contained in the tables titled Explanation of Project Level 
Adjustments in the explanatory statement regarding this Act, the 
obligation and expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act for those programs, projects, and activities for 
which the amounts appropriated exceed the amounts requested are hereby 
required by law to be carried out in the manner provided by such tables 
to the same extent as if the tables were included in the text of this 
Act.
    (b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in 
subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of appropriations 
for purposes of section 8005 of this Act: Provided, That section 8005 
shall apply when transfers of the amounts described in subsection (a) 
occur between appropriation accounts.
    Sec. 8007. (a) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Department of Defense shall submit a report to the congressional 
defense committees to establish the baseline for application of 
reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2020: Provided, 
That the report shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by budget activity and program, project, and activity as 
        detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 8005 of this Act, none of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer 
until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the 
congressional defense committees, unless the Secretary of Defense 
certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency requirement: 
Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to transfers from the 
following appropriations accounts:
            (1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army'';
            (2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy'';
            (3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force'';
            (4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide''
            (5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
        Sites''.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances in 
working capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant 
to section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in 
only such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements 
to be made from such funds: Provided, That transfers may be made 
between such funds: Provided further, That transfers may be made 
between working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Defense'' appropriation and the ``Operation and Maintenance'' 
appropriation accounts in such amounts as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget, except that such transfers may not be made unless the Secretary 
of Defense has notified the Congress of the proposed transfer: Provided 
further, That except in amounts equal to the amounts appropriated to 
working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may be made against a 
working capital fund to procure or increase the value of war reserve 
material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the 
Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8009.  Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used to 
initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 
calendar days in advance to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 8010.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic 
order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of 
the contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in 
excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a contract for advance procurement 
leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity 
procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
congressional defense committees have been notified at least 30 days in 
advance of the proposed contract award: Provided, That no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to initiate a 
multiyear contract for which the economic order quantity advance 
procurement is not funded at least to the limits of the Government's 
liability: Provided further, That no part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be available to initiate multiyear 
procurement contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value 
of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That no multiyear procurement 
contract can be terminated without 30-day prior notification to the 
congressional defense committees: Provided further, That the execution 
of multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value 
analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual procurement: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used for a multiyear contract executed after the date of the enactment 
of this Act unless in the case of any such contract--
            (1) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a 
        budget request for full funding of units to be procured through 
        the contract and, in the case of a contract for procurement of 
        aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit to be procured 
        through the contract for which procurement funds are requested 
        in that budget request for production beyond advance 
        procurement activities in the fiscal year covered by the 
        budget, full funding of procurement of such unit in that fiscal 
        year;
            (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include 
        consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the 
        contractor associated with the production of unfunded units to 
        be delivered under the contract;
            (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor 
        under the contract shall not be made in advance of incurred 
        costs on funded units; and
            (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment 
        based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.
    Sec. 8011.  Within the funds appropriated for the operation and 
maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant 
to section 401 of title 10, United States Code, for humanitarian and 
civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code. Such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic 
assistance costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United 
States Code, and these obligations shall be reported as required by 
section 401(d) of title 10, United States Code: Provided, That funds 
available for operation and maintenance shall be available for 
providing humanitarian and similar assistance by using Civic Action 
Teams in the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely 
associated states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of Free 
Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239: Provided further, That 
upon a determination by the Secretary of the Army that such action is 
beneficial for graduate medical education programs conducted at Army 
medical facilities located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may 
authorize the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for 
civilian patients from American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8012. (a) During the current fiscal year, the civilian 
personnel of the Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis 
of any end-strength, and the management of such personnel during that 
fiscal year shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known 
as an end-strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed 
on the last day of such fiscal year.
    (b) The fiscal year 2021 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 2021 Department of Defense budget request 
shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) 
and (b) of this provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 
2021.
    (c) As required by section 1107 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 
2358 note) civilian personnel at the Department of Army Science and 
Technology Reinvention Laboratories may not be managed on the basis of 
the Table of Distribution and Allowances, and the management of the 
workforce strength shall be done in a manner consistent with the budget 
available with respect to such Laboratories.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to military 
(civilian) technicians.
    Sec. 8013.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional 
action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8014.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army 
participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
completion of a service commitment: Provided, That this section shall 
not apply to those members who have reenlisted with this option prior 
to October 1, 1987: Provided further, That this section applies only to 
active components of the Army.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8015.  Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred 
to any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose 
of implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance 
agreement pursuant to section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as 
amended, under the authority of this provision or any other transfer 
authority contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8016.  None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
purchase by the Department of Defense (and its departments and 
agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain 4 inches in 
diameter and under unless the anchor and mooring chain are manufactured 
in the United States from components which are substantially 
manufactured in the United States: Provided, That for the purpose of 
this section, the term ``manufactured'' shall include cutting, heat 
treating, quality control, testing of chain and welding (including the 
forging and shot blasting process): Provided further, That for the 
purpose of this section substantially all of the components of anchor 
and mooring chain shall be considered to be produced or manufactured in 
the United States if the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
manufactured in the United States exceeds the aggregate cost of the 
components produced or manufactured outside the United States: Provided 
further, That when adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of 
the Service responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction 
on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8017.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the 
Department of Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with 
nonappropriated funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages 
sold by the drink) on a military installation located in the United 
States unless such malt beverages and wine are procured within that 
State, or in the case of the District of Columbia, within the District 
of Columbia, in which the military installation is located: Provided, 
That, in a case in which the military installation is located in more 
than one State, purchases may be made in any State in which the 
installation is located: Provided further, That such local procurement 
requirements for malt beverages and wine shall apply to all alcoholic 
beverages only for military installations in States which are not 
contiguous with another State: Provided further, That alcoholic 
beverages other than wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and 
the District of Columbia shall be procured from the most competitive 
source, price and other factors considered.
    Sec. 8018.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1 Carbines, M-1 
Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber rifles, or 
M-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or destroy small arms ammunition or 
ammunition components that are not otherwise prohibited from commercial 
sale under Federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition 
components are certified by the Secretary of the Army or designee as 
unserviceable or unsafe for further use.
    Sec. 8019.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used during a single fiscal year for any 
single relocation of an organization, unit, activity or function of the 
Department of Defense into or within the National Capital Region: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a 
case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional 
defense committees that such a relocation is required in the best 
interest of the Government.
    Sec. 8020.  Of the funds made available in this Act, $25,000,000 
shall be available for incentive payments authorized by section 504 of 
the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544): Provided, That a 
prime contractor or a subcontractor at any tier that makes a 
subcontract award to any subcontractor or supplier as defined in 
section 1544 of title 25, United States Code, or a small business owned 
and controlled by an individual or individuals defined under section 
4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be considered a 
contractor for the purposes of being allowed additional compensation 
under section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) 
whenever the prime contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and 
involves the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to any fiscal 
year: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1906 of title 41, 
United States Code, this section shall be applicable to any Department 
of Defense acquisition of supplies or services, including any contract 
and any subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items 
produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any subcontractor or 
supplier defined in section 1544 of title 25, United States Code, or a 
small business owned and controlled by an individual or individuals 
defined under section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code.
    Sec. 8021.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense Media 
Activity shall not be used for any national or international political 
or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8022.  During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed 
$350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only 
from the Government of Kuwait, under that section: Provided, That, upon 
receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriations or fund which incurred such obligations.
    Sec. 8023. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not less 
than $51,800,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol 
Corporation, of which--
            (1) $37,233,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol 
        Corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-drug 
        activities, and drug demand reduction activities involving 
        youth programs;
            (2) $11,000,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft 
        Procurement, Air Force''; and
            (3) $3,567,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement, 
        Air Force'' for vehicle and communication equipment 
        procurement.
    (b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive reimbursement for 
any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for counter-drug activities in 
support of Federal, State, and local government agencies.
    Sec. 8024. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act are 
available to establish a new Department of Defense (department) 
federally funded research and development center (FFRDC), either as a 
new entity, or as a separate entity administrated by an organization 
managing another FFRDC, or as a nonprofit membership corporation 
consisting of a consortium of other FFRDCs and other nonprofit 
entities.
    (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, 
Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or any 
similar entity of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant to any 
defense FFRDC, except when acting in a technical advisory capacity, may 
be compensated for his or her services as a member of such entity, or 
as a paid consultant by more than one FFRDC in a fiscal year: Provided, 
That a member of any such entity referred to previously in this 
subsection shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized 
under the Federal Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in the 
performance of membership duties.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
available to the department from any source during the current fiscal 
year may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a fee or other payment 
mechanism, for construction of new buildings not located on a military 
installation, for payment of cost sharing for projects funded by 
Government grants, for absorption of contract overruns, or for certain 
charitable contributions, not to include employee participation in 
community service and/or development.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
available to the department during fiscal year 2020, not more than 
6,100 staff years of technical effort (staff years) may be funded for 
defense FFRDCs: Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to staff 
years funded in the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the 
Military Intelligence Program (MIP).
    (e) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of the 
Department's fiscal year 2021 budget request, submit a report 
presenting the specific amounts of staff years of technical effort to 
be allocated for each defense FFRDC during that fiscal year and the 
associated budget estimates.
    (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act for FFRDCs is hereby increased by 
$26,800,000: Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to 
appropriations for the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the 
Military Intelligence Program (MIP).
    Sec. 8025.  None of the funds appropriated or made available in 
this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, or armor steel plate 
for use in any Government-owned facility or property under the control 
of the Department of Defense which were not melted and rolled in the 
United States or Canada: Provided, That these procurement restrictions 
shall apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society 
of Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and Steel Institute 
(AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel plate: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the military department responsible for 
the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes: Provided further, That these 
restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8026.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Armed Services Committee of the House of 
Representatives, the Armed Services Committee of the Senate, the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8027.  During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance and repair of 
aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the production of components 
and other Defense-related articles, through competition between 
Department of Defense depot maintenance activities and private firms: 
Provided, That the Senior Acquisition Executive of the military 
department or Defense Agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall 
certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct 
and indirect costs for both public and private bids: Provided further, 
That Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to 
competitions conducted under this section.
    Sec. 8028. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal 
defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the United 
States and a foreign country pursuant to which the Secretary of Defense 
has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for certain products in 
that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a report 
on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from foreign entities 
in fiscal year 2020. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar 
value of items for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to 
any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act 
of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to 
which the United States is a party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 8029.  During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in 
the Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment 
Recovery Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 
note) shall be available until expended for the payments specified by 
section 2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8030. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may convey at no cost to the Air Force, 
without consideration, to Indian tribes located in the States of 
Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, 
and Washington relocatable military housing units located at Grand 
Forks Air Force Base, Malmstrom Air Force Base, Mountain Home Air Force 
Base, Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air Force Base that are 
excess to the needs of the Air Force.
    (b) The Secretary of the Air Force shall convey, at no cost to the 
Air Force, military housing units under subsection (a) in accordance 
with the request for such units that are submitted to the Secretary by 
the Operation Walking Shield Program on behalf of Indian tribes located 
in the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, 
Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington. Any such conveyance shall be subject 
to the condition that the housing units shall be removed within a 
reasonable period of time, as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any 
conflicts among requests of Indian tribes for housing units under 
subsection (a) before submitting requests to the Secretary of the Air 
Force under subsection (b).
    (d) In this section, the term ``Indian tribe'' means any recognized 
Indian tribe included on the current list published by the Secretary of 
the Interior under section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe 
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 5131).
    Sec. 8031.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations which 
are available to the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance may be used to purchase items having an investment item 
unit cost of not more than $250,000.
    Sec. 8032.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to--
            (1) disestablish, or prepare to disestablish, a Senior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps program in accordance with 
        Department of Defense Instruction Number 1215.08, dated June 
        26, 2006; or
            (2) close, downgrade from host to extension center, or 
        place on probation a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        program in accordance with the information paper of the 
        Department of the Army titled ``Army Senior Reserve Officer's 
        Training Corps (SROTC) Program Review and Criteria'', dated 
        January 27, 2014.
    Sec. 8033.  Up to $14,000,000 of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'' may be made available for 
the Asia Pacific Regional Initiative Program for the purpose of 
enabling the Pacific Command to execute Theater Security Cooperation 
activities such as humanitarian assistance, and payment of incremental 
and personnel costs of training and exercising with foreign security 
forces: Provided, That funds made available for this purpose may be 
used, notwithstanding any other funding authorities for humanitarian 
assistance, security assistance or combined exercise expenses: Provided 
further, That funds may not be obligated to provide assistance to any 
foreign country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type 
of assistance under any other provision of law.
    Sec. 8034.  The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations to 
prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-related products in 
military resale outlets in the United States, its territories and 
possessions at a price below the most competitive price in the local 
community: Provided, That such regulations shall direct that the prices 
of tobacco or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail 
outlets shall be within the range of prices established for military 
retail system stores located in the United States.
    Sec. 8035. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Department of Defense Working 
Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for 
the purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated 
sale during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to 
customers of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an 
item would not have been chargeable to the Department of Defense 
Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and if the purchase of 
such an investment item would be chargeable during the current fiscal 
year to appropriations made to the Department of Defense for 
procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 2021 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 2021 Department of Defense budget shall be 
prepared and submitted to the Congress on the basis that any equipment 
which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
fiscal year 2021 procurement appropriation and not in the supply 
management business area or any other area or category of the 
Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.
    Sec. 8036.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for 
obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds 
appropriated for the Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds appropriated, 
transferred, or otherwise credited to the Central Intelligence Agency 
Central Services Working Capital Fund during this or any prior or 
subsequent fiscal year shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That any funds appropriated or transferred to the Central 
Intelligence Agency for advanced research and development acquisition, 
for agent operations, and for covert action programs authorized by the 
President under section 503 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3093) shall remain available until September 30, 2021.
    Sec. 8037.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', not less 
than $12,000,000 shall be made available only for the mitigation of 
environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to 
tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for 
mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department of Defense 
activities.
    Sec. 8038. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended by an entity of the Department of Defense unless the entity, 
in expending the funds, complies with the Buy American Act. For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ``Buy American Act'' means 
chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person has been 
convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription to any product sold in or shipped to the United 
States that is not made in America, the Secretary shall determine, in 
accordance with section 2410f of title 10, United States Code, whether 
the person should be debarred from contracting with the Department of 
Defense.
    (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of the Congress 
that any entity of the Department of Defense, in expending the 
appropriation, purchase only American-made equipment and products, 
provided that American-made equipment and products are cost-
competitive, quality competitive, and available in a timely fashion.
    Sec. 8039. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used--
            (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
            (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or 
        civilian employee of the department who is transferred or 
        reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or 
        employee's place of duty remains at the location of that 
        headquarters.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military department 
may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, 
if the Secretary determines, and certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that the 
granting of the waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the 
financial requirements of the department.
    (c) This section does not apply to--
            (1) field operating agencies funded within the National 
        Intelligence Program;
            (2) an Army field operating agency established to 
        eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised 
        explosive devices, and, as determined by the Secretary of the 
        Army, other similar threats;
            (3) an Army field operating agency established to improve 
        the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities and 
        to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (4) an Air Force field operating agency established to 
        administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and Mortuary 
        Operations for the Department of Defense and authorized Federal 
        entities.
    Sec. 8040. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function 
of the Department of Defense that, on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, is performed by Department of Defense civilian 
employees unless--
            (1) the conversion is based on the result of a public-
        private competition that includes a most efficient and cost 
        effective organization plan developed by such activity or 
        function;
            (2) the Competitive Sourcing Official determines that, over 
        all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers 
        for performance of the activity or function, the cost of 
        performance of the activity or function by a contractor would 
        be less costly to the Department of Defense by an amount that 
        equals or exceeds the lesser of--
                    (A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's 
                personnel-related costs for performance of that 
                activity or function by Federal employees; or
                    (B) $10,000,000; and
            (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a 
        proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of Defense 
        by--
                    (A) not making an employer-sponsored health 
                insurance plan available to the workers who are to be 
                employed in the performance of that activity or 
                function under the contract; or
                    (B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored 
                health benefits plan that requires the employer to 
                contribute less towards the premium or subscription 
                share than the amount that is paid by the Department of 
                Defense for health benefits for civilian employees 
                under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to subsection (a) 
of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 2461 of title 
10, United States Code, and notwithstanding any administrative 
regulation, requirement, or policy to the contrary shall have full 
authority to enter into a contract for the performance of any 
commercial or industrial type function of the Department of Defense 
that--
            (A) is included on the procurement list established 
        pursuant to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section 
        8503 of title 41, United States Code);
            (B) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
        qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified 
        nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals in 
        accordance with that Act; or
            (C) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
        qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an Indian 
        tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)), 
        or a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in section 
        8(a)(15) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(15)).
    (2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or contracts 
for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 and 2474 of title 
10, United States Code.
    (c) The conversion of any activity or function of the Department of 
Defense under the authority provided by this section shall be credited 
toward any competitive or outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that 
may be established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed to 
be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, subsection 
(h) of section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
competition or outsourcing of commercial activities.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 8041.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts: Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended:
    ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: DDG-51 Destroyer'', 2012/2020, 
$86,000,000;
    ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: LCAC SLEP'', 2013/2020, 
$2,000,000;
    ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2018/2020, $14,056,000;
    ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', 2018/
2020, $97,000,000;
    ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2018/2020, $10,685,000;
    ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2018/2020, $126,079,000;
    ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 2018/2020, $34,087,000;
    ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 2018/2020, $9,046,000;
    ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, $160,200,000;
    ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, $26,000,000;
    ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide: DSCA Security 
Cooperation Account'', 2019/2020, $21,314,000;
    ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $58,600,000;
    ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles'', 2019/2021, 
$87,567,000;
    ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $75,173,000;
    ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2019/2021, $501,616,000;
    ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps'', 2019/2021, 
$22,000,000;
    ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 2019/2021, $44,964,000;
    ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 2019/2021, $74,456,000;
    ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $629,300,000;
    ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $76,000,000;
    ``Space Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $214,509,000;
    ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $236,100,000;
    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army'', 2019/2020, 
$65,933,000;
    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 2019/2020, 
$240,088,000; and
    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'', 2019/
2020, $131,200,000.
    Sec. 8042.  None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
reduce the authorized positions for military technicians (dual status) 
of the Army National Guard, Air National Guard, Army Reserve and Air 
Force Reserve for the purpose of applying any administratively imposed 
civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military 
technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a direct result 
of a reduction in military force structure.
    Sec. 8043.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended for assistance to 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea unless specifically 
appropriated for that purpose.
    Sec. 8044.  Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and 
maintenance of the Military Departments, Combatant Commands and Defense 
Agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay, allowances and 
other expenses which would otherwise be incurred against appropriations 
for the National Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard 
and Reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence support to 
Combatant Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence Activities, 
including the activities and programs included within the National 
Intelligence Program and the Military Intelligence Program: Provided, 
That nothing in this section authorizes deviation from established 
Reserve and National Guard personnel and training procedures.
    Sec. 8045. (a) None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug 
activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the 
United States.
    (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence Agency 
for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug activities 
may be transferred to any other department or agency of the United 
States.
    Sec. 8046.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other than those 
produced by a domestic source and of domestic origin: Provided, That 
the Secretary of the military department responsible for such 
procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes: Provided further, That this 
restriction shall not apply to the purchase of ``commercial items'', as 
defined by section 103 of title 41, United States Code, except that the 
restriction shall apply to ball or roller bearings purchased as end 
items.
    Sec. 8047.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available elsewhere in this Act, $44,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense: Provided, That upon the 
determination of the Secretary of Defense that it shall serve the 
national interest, the Secretary shall make grants in the amounts 
specified as follows: $20,000,000 to the United Service Organizations 
and $24,000,000 to the Red Cross.
    Sec. 8048.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to purchase 
any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the United States, 
unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes that is not available from 
United States manufacturers.
    Sec. 8049.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the 
Small Business Innovation Research program and the Small Business 
Technology Transfer program set-asides shall be taken proportionally 
from all programs, projects, or activities to the extent they 
contribute to the extramural budget.
    Sec. 8050.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to pay a 
contractor under a contract with the Department of Defense for costs of 
any amount paid by the contractor to an employee when--
            (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of 
        the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
            (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
        with a business combination.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8051.  During the current fiscal year, no more than 
$30,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be transferred to 
appropriations available for the pay of military personnel, to be 
merged with, and to be available for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred, to be used in support of such 
personnel in connection with support and services for eligible 
organizations and activities outside the Department of Defense pursuant 
to section 2012 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8052.  During the current fiscal year, in the case of an 
appropriation account of the Department of Defense for which the period 
of availability for obligation has expired or which has closed under 
the provisions of section 1552 of title 31, United States Code, and 
which has a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation 
or an adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current 
appropriation account for the same purpose as the expired or closed 
account if--
            (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
        (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
        the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
        account;
            (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
        any current appropriation account of the Department of Defense; 
        and
            (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is 
        not chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department of 
        Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, Public 
        Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note): Provided, That 
        in the case of an expired account, if subsequent review or 
        investigation discloses that there was not in fact a negative 
        unliquidated or unexpended balance in the account, any charge 
        to a current account under the authority of this section shall 
        be reversed and recorded against the expired account: Provided 
        further, That the total amount charged to a current 
        appropriation under this section may not exceed an amount equal 
        to 1 percent of the total appropriation for that account.
    Sec. 8053. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of equipment of 
the National Guard Distance Learning Project by any person or entity on 
a space-available, reimbursable basis. The Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall establish the amount of reimbursement for such use on a 
case-by-case basis.
    (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be credited to 
funds available for the National Guard Distance Learning Project and be 
available to defray the costs associated with the use of equipment of 
the project under that subsection. Such funds shall be available for 
such purposes without fiscal year limitation.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8054.  Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $35,000,000 shall be for 
continued implementation and expansion of the Sexual Assault Special 
Victims' Counsel Program: Provided, That the funds are made available 
for transfer to the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
and the Department of the Air Force: Provided further, That funds 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes 
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which the funds 
are transferred: Provided further, That this transfer authority is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.
    Sec. 8055.  None of the funds appropriated in title IV of this Act 
may be used to procure end-items for delivery to military forces for 
operational training, operational use or inventory requirements: 
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to end-items used in 
development, prototyping, and test activities preceding and leading to 
acceptance for operational use: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, with submission of the Department's fiscal year 2021 
budget request, submit a report detailing the use of funds requested in 
research, development, test and evaluation accounts for end-items used 
in development, prototyping and test activities preceding and leading 
to acceptance for operational use: Provided further, That this 
restriction does not apply to programs funded within the National 
Intelligence Program: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that it is in the national security 
interest to do so.
    Sec. 8056. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-case 
basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each limitation on the 
procurement of defense items from foreign sources provided in law if 
the Secretary determines that the application of the limitation with 
respect to that country would invalidate cooperative programs entered 
into between the Department of Defense and the foreign country, or 
would invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of 
defense items entered into under section 2531 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the country does not discriminate against the same or 
similar defense items produced in the United States for that country.
    (b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
            (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised 
        after such date under contracts that are entered into before 
        such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason 
        other than the application of a waiver granted under subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, and 
clothing or textile materials as defined by section XI (chapters 50-65) 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and products 
classified under headings 4010, 4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 
7019, 7218 through 7229, 7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 
7508, 8105, 8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
    Sec. 8057.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or other Department of Defense Appropriations Acts 
may be obligated or expended for the purpose of performing repairs or 
maintenance to military family housing units of the Department of 
Defense, including areas in such military family housing units that may 
be used for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense 
business.
    Sec. 8058.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new start advanced concept 
technology demonstration project or joint capability demonstration 
project may only be obligated 45 days after a report, including a 
description of the project, the planned acquisition and transition 
strategy and its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in 
writing to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 8059.  The Secretary of Defense shall continue to provide a 
classified quarterly report to the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees, Subcommittees on Defense on certain matters as directed in 
the classified annex accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 8060.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, a Reserve who is a member of the National Guard serving on 
full-time National Guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, United 
States Code, may perform duties in support of the ground-based elements 
of the National Ballistic Missile Defense System.
    Sec. 8061.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition held by the 
Department of Defense that has a center-fire cartridge and a United 
States military nomenclature designation of ``armor penetrator'', 
``armor piercing (AP)'', ``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or 
``armor-piercing incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity 
performing demilitarization services for the Department of Defense 
under a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the 
satisfaction of the Department of Defense that armor piercing 
projectiles are either: (1) rendered incapable of reuse by the 
demilitarization process; or (2) used to manufacture ammunition 
pursuant to a contract with the Department of Defense or the 
manufacture of ammunition for export pursuant to a License for 
Permanent Export of Unclassified Military Articles issued by the 
Department of State.
    Sec. 8062.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chief 
of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, may waive payment of all 
or part of the consideration that otherwise would be required under 
section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, in the case of a lease of 
personal property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any 
organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United States 
Code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal nonprofit organization 
as may be approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his 
designee, on a case-by-case basis.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8063.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $138,103,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to transfer 
such funds to other activities of the Federal Government: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense is authorized to enter into and 
carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property, construction, 
personal services, and operations related to projects carrying out the 
purposes of this section: Provided further, That contracts entered into 
under the authority of this section may provide for such 
indemnification as the Secretary determines to be necessary: Provided 
further, That projects authorized by this section shall comply with 
applicable Federal, State, and local law to the maximum extent 
consistent with the national security, as determined by the Secretary 
of Defense.
    Sec. 8064. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act may be used to take any action to modify--
            (1) the appropriations account structure for the National 
        Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation of 
        a new appropriation or new appropriation account;
            (2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is 
        presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents 
        supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
            (3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
            (4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.
    (b) Nothing in section (a) shall be construed to prohibit the 
merger of programs or changes to the National Intelligence Program 
budget at or below the Expenditure Center level, provided such change 
is otherwise in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)-(3).
    (c) The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of 
Defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving auditable 
financial statements and improving fiscal reporting, study and develop 
detailed proposals for alternative financial management processes. Such 
study shall include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment 
to ensure that none of the alternative processes will adversely affect 
counterintelligence.
    (d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined under 
subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
of Defense shall--
            (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected 
        agencies;
            (2) receive certification from all affected agencies 
        attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve 
        auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not adversely 
        affect counterintelligence; and
            (3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary 
        certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed 
        alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense 
        and intelligence committees.
    Sec. 8065.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
$5,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense, to remain available for obligation until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
that upon the determination of the Secretary of Defense that it shall 
serve the national interest, these funds shall be available only for a 
grant to the Fisher House Foundation, Inc., only for the construction 
and furnishing of additional Fisher Houses to meet the needs of 
military family members when confronted with the illness or 
hospitalization of an eligible military beneficiary.
    Sec. 8066.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense may be obligated to modify command and control relationships to 
give Fleet Forces Command operational and administrative control of 
United States Navy forces assigned to the Pacific fleet: Provided, That 
the command and control relationships which existed on October 1, 2004, 
shall remain in force until a written modification has been proposed to 
the House and Senate Appropriations Committees: Provided further, That 
the proposed modification may be implemented 30 days after the 
notification unless an objection is received from either the House or 
Senate Appropriations Committees: Provided further, That any proposed 
modification shall not preclude the ability of the commander of United 
States Indo-Pacific Command to meet operational requirements.
    Sec. 8067.  Any notice that is required to be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives under section 806(c)(4) of the Bob Stump National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) 
after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be submitted pursuant 
to that requirement concurrently to the Subcommittees on Defense of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8068.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $500,000,000 shall be for the 
Israeli Cooperative Programs: Provided, That of this amount, 
$95,000,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the 
Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense 
system to counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the U.S.-
Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended; $191,000,000 shall 
be for the Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense (SRBMD) program, 
including cruise missile defense research and development under the 
SRBMD program, of which $50,000,000 shall be for co-production 
activities of SRBMD systems in the United States and in Israel to meet 
Israel's defense requirements consistent with each nation's laws, 
regulations, and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production 
agreement for SRBMD, as amended; $55,000,000 shall be for an upper-tier 
component to the Israeli Missile Defense Architecture, of which 
$55,000,000 shall be for co-production activities of Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
systems in the United States and in Israel to meet Israel's defense 
requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and 
procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production agreement for 
Arrow 3 Upper Tier, as amended; and $159,000,000 shall be for the Arrow 
System Improvement Program including development of a long range, 
ground and airborne, detection suite: Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this provision is in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained in this Act.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8069.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', $55,700,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2020, to fund prior year shipbuilding 
cost increases: Provided, That upon enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall transfer funds to the following 
appropriations in the amounts specified: Provided further, That the 
amounts transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
purposes as the appropriations to which transferred to:
            (1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2016/2020: Littoral Combat Ship $14,000,000;
            (2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2016/2020: Expeditionary Sea Base $38,000,000; and
            (3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2018/2020: TAO Fleet Oiler $3,700,000.
    Sec. 8070.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by 
the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are 
deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of 
section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) 
during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
    Sec. 8071.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that creates or initiates a new program, project, or activity, 
unless the Secretary of Defense notifies the congressional defense 
committees not less that 30 days in advance (or in an emergency, as far 
in advance as is practicable) that such program, project, or activity 
must be undertaken immediately to address a documented requirement in 
ongoing or anticipated contingency operations that if left unfulfilled 
could potentially result in loss of life.
    Sec. 8072.  The budget of the President for fiscal year 2021 
submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall include separate budget justification documents for 
costs of United States Armed Forces' participation in contingency 
operations for the Military Personnel accounts, the Operation and 
Maintenance accounts, the Procurement accounts, and the Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation accounts: Provided, That these 
documents shall include a description of the funding requested for each 
contingency operation, for each military service, to include all Active 
and Reserve components, and for each appropriations account: Provided 
further, That these documents shall include estimated costs for each 
element of expense or object class, a reconciliation of increases and 
decreases for each contingency operation, and programmatic data 
including, but not limited to, troop strength for each Active and 
Reserve component, and estimates of the major weapons systems deployed 
in support of each contingency: Provided further, That these documents 
shall include budget exhibits OP-5 and OP-32 (as defined in the 
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation) for all 
contingency operations for the budget year and the 2 preceding fiscal 
years.
    Sec. 8073.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for research, 
development, test, evaluation, procurement or deployment of nuclear 
armed interceptors of a missile defense system.
    Sec. 8074.  The Secretary of Defense may use up to $500,000,000 of 
the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act to the 
Department of Defense for the rapid acquisition and deployment of 
supplies and associated support services pursuant to section 806 of the 
Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 
(Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note): Provided, That the Secretary 
of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees promptly 
of all uses of this authority.
    Sec. 8075.  None of the funds appropriated or made available in 
this Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 
53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such 
action would reduce the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the 
levels funded in this Act: Provided, That the Air Force shall allow the 
53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron to perform other missions in 
support of national defense requirements during the non-hurricane 
season.
    Sec. 8076.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for integration of foreign intelligence information unless 
the information has been lawfully collected and processed during the 
conduct of authorized foreign intelligence activities: Provided, That 
information pertaining to United States persons shall only be handled 
in accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment of the 
United States Constitution as implemented through Executive Order No. 
12333.
    Sec. 8077. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to transfer research and development, acquisition, or other 
program authority relating to current tactical unmanned aerial vehicles 
(TUAVs) from the Army.
    (b) The Army shall retain responsibility for and operational 
control of the MQ-1C Gray Eagle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in order 
to support the Secretary of Defense in matters relating to the 
employment of unmanned aerial vehicles.
    Sec. 8078.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for 
funds appropriated for research and technology, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.
    Sec. 8079.  For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, United 
States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in this Act under 
the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' shall be considered 
to be for the same purpose as any subdivision under the heading 
``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' appropriations in any prior 
fiscal year, and the 1 percent limitation shall apply to the total 
amount of the appropriation.
    Sec. 8080. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit a 
report to the congressional intelligence committees to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for 
fiscal year 2020: Provided, That the report shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
        Expenditure Center and project; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.
    (b) None of the funds provided for the National Intelligence 
Program in this Act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer 
until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the 
congressional intelligence committees, unless the Director of National 
Intelligence certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence 
committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an 
emergency requirement.
    Sec. 8081.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
transfer of funds, appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act, for support to friendly foreign countries in connection with the 
conduct of operations in which the United States is not participating, 
pursuant to section 331(d) of title 10, United States Code, shall be 
made in accordance with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as 
applicable.
    Sec. 8082.  Any transfer of amounts appropriated to, credited to, 
or deposited in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
Development Fund in or for fiscal year 2020 to a military department or 
Defense Agency pursuant to section 1705(e)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, shall be covered by and subject to section 8005 or 9002 of 
this Act, as applicable.
    Sec. 8083.  None of the funds made available by this Act for excess 
defense articles, assistance under section 333 of title 10, United 
States Code, or peacekeeping operations for the countries designated 
annually to be in violation of the standards of the Child Soldiers 
Prevention Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) may be 
used to support any military training or operation that includes child 
soldiers, as defined by the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008, 
unless such assistance is otherwise permitted under section 404 of the 
Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008.
    Sec. 8084. (a) None of the funds provided for the National 
Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or 
transfer of funds in accordance with section 102A(d) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that--
            (1) creates a new start effort;
            (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of 
        $10,000,000 or more;
            (3) transfers funding into or out of the National 
        Intelligence Program; or
            (4) transfers funding between appropriations,
unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days 
in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may 
be reduced for urgent national security requirements.
    (b) None of the funds provided for the National Intelligence 
Program in this or any prior appropriations Act shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or transfer of funds 
in accordance with section 102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease 
of the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the Act 
unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days 
in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may 
be reduced for urgent national security requirements.
    Sec. 8085.  The Director of National Intelligence shall submit to 
Congress each year, at or about the time that the President's budget is 
submitted to Congress that year under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, a future-years intelligence program (including 
associated annexes) reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed 
appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years 
intelligence program shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which 
the budget is submitted and at least the 4 succeeding fiscal years.
    Sec. 8086.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
intelligence committees'' means the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives, the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8087.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed 
$11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II of this 
Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy'', and ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'' may 
be transferred by the military department concerned to its central fund 
established for Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of 
title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8088.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
available for the purpose of making remittances to the Department of 
Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in accordance with 
section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8089. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 8090. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be expended for any Federal contract for an 
amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the contractor agrees not to--
            (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or 
        independent contractors that requires, as a condition of 
        employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree 
        to resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of the 
        Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out 
        of sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention; 
        or
            (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing 
        agreement with an employee or independent contractor that 
        mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve 
        through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil 
        Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of 
        sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be expended for any Federal contract unless the contractor 
certifies that it requires each covered subcontractor to agree not to 
enter into, and not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any 
agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), 
with respect to any employee or independent contractor performing work 
related to such subcontract. For purposes of this subsection, a 
``covered subcontractor'' is an entity that has a subcontract in excess 
of $1,000,000 on a contract subject to subsection (a).
    (c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with respect to a 
contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with employees or 
independent contractors that may not be enforced in a court of the 
United States.
    (d) The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of 
subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or subcontractor for 
the purposes of a particular contract or subcontract if the Secretary 
or the Deputy Secretary personally determines that the waiver is 
necessary to avoid harm to national security interests of the United 
States, and that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer 
than necessary to avoid such harm. The determination shall set forth 
with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for the contract or 
subcontract term selected, and shall state any alternatives considered 
in lieu of a waiver and the reasons each such alternative would not 
avoid harm to national security interests of the United States. The 
Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, and simultaneously 
make public, any determination under this subsection not less than 15 
business days before the contract or subcontract addressed in the 
determination may be awarded.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8091.  From within the funds appropriated for operation and 
maintenance for the Defense Health Program in this Act, up to 
$129,000,000, shall be available for transfer to the Joint Department 
of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund in accordance with the provisions of section 1704 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 
111-84: Provided, That for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility 
operations funded are operations of the integrated Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
as described by section 706 of Public Law 110-417: Provided further, 
That additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated for 
operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program to the Joint 
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Defense to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 8092.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used by the Department of Defense or a 
component thereof in contravention of the provisions of section 130h of 
title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8093.  Appropriations available to the Department of Defense 
may be used for the purchase of heavy and light armored vehicles for 
the physical security of personnel or for force protection purposes up 
to a limit of $450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other 
limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8094.  Upon a determination by the Director of National 
Intelligence that such action is necessary and in the national 
interest, the Director may, with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed $1,000,000,000 of the 
funds made available in this Act for the National Intelligence Program: 
Provided, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence requirements, 
than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the 
item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress: 
Provided further, That a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds 
using authority provided in this section shall be made prior to June 
30, 2020.
    Sec. 8095.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, release, or 
assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States, its 
territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 8096.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer any individual detained 
at United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the custody or 
control of the individual's country of origin, any other foreign 
country, or any other foreign entity except in accordance with section 
1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92) and section 1035 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232).
    Sec. 8097.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used in contravention of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 8098. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the Secretary of 
Defense, or any other official or officer of the Department of Defense, 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of Rosoboronexport.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in subsection 
(a) if the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State and 
the Director of National Intelligence, determines that it is in the 
vital national security interest of the United States to do so, and 
certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that, to 
the best of the Secretary's knowledge:
            (1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal 
        military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal 
        military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab 
        Republic.
            (2) The armed forces of the Russian Federation have 
        withdrawn from Crimea, other than armed forces present on 
        military bases subject to agreements in force between the 
        Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of 
        Ukraine.
            (3) Agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking 
        active measures to destabilize the control of the Government of 
        Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.
    (c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall 
conduct a review of any action involving Rosoboronexport with respect 
to a waiver issued by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection 
(b), and not later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver 
is issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
results of the review conducted with respect to such waiver.
    Sec. 8099.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for the purchase or manufacture of a flag of the United States 
unless such flags are treated as covered items under section 2533a(b) 
of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8100. (a) Of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
Department of Defense, amounts may be made available, under such 
regulations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe, to local 
military commanders appointed by the Secretary, or by an officer or 
employee designated by the Secretary, to provide at their discretion ex 
gratia payments in amounts consistent with subsection (d) of this 
section for damage, personal injury, or death that is incident to 
combat operations of the Armed Forces in a foreign country.
    (b) An ex gratia payment under this section may be provided only 
if--
            (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is 
        determined by the local military commander to be friendly to 
        the United States;
            (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under 
        chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Foreign Claims Act''); and
            (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
        caused by action by an enemy.
    (c) Any payments provided under a program under subsection (a) 
shall not be considered an admission or acknowledgement of any legal 
obligation to compensate for any damage, personal injury, or death.
    (d) If the Secretary of Defense determines a program under 
subsection (a) to be appropriate in a particular setting, the amounts 
of payments, if any, to be provided to civilians determined to have 
suffered harm incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces under 
the program should be determined pursuant to regulations prescribed by 
the Secretary and based on an assessment, which should include such 
factors as cultural appropriateness and prevailing economic conditions.
    (e) Local military commanders shall receive legal advice before 
making ex gratia payments under this subsection. The legal advisor, 
under regulations of the Department of Defense, shall advise on whether 
an ex gratia payment is proper under this section and applicable 
Department of Defense regulations.
    (f) A written record of any ex gratia payment offered or denied 
shall be kept by the local commander and on a timely basis submitted to 
the appropriate office in the Department of Defense as determined by 
the Secretary of Defense.
    (g) The Secretary of Defense shall report to the congressional 
defense committees on an annual basis the efficacy of the ex gratia 
payment program including the number of types of cases considered, 
amounts offered, the response from ex gratia payment recipients, and 
any recommended modifications to the program.
    Sec. 8101.  The Secretary of Defense shall post grant awards on a 
public website in a searchable format.
    Sec. 8102.  The Secretary of each military department, in reducing 
each research, development, test and evaluation and procurement account 
of the military department as required under paragraph (1) of section 
828(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note), as amended by section 
825(a)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018, shall allocate the percentage reduction determined under 
paragraph (2) of such section 828(d) proportionally from all programs, 
projects, or activities under such account: Provided, That the 
authority under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) to 
transfer amounts available in the Rapid Prototyping Fund shall be 
subject to section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
    Sec. 8103.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used by the National Security Agency to--
            (1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 for the purpose 
        of targeting a United States person; or
            (2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term 
        is defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, United States Code) 
        of any electronic communication of a United States person from 
        a provider of electronic communication services to the public 
        pursuant to section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence 
        Surveillance Act of 1978.
    Sec. 8104.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of any 
agency funded by this Act who approves or implements the transfer of 
administrative responsibilities or budgetary resources of any program, 
project, or activity financed by this Act to the jurisdiction of 
another Federal agency not financed by this Act without the express 
authorization of Congress: Provided, That this limitation shall not 
apply to transfers of funds expressly provided for in Defense 
Appropriations Acts, or provisions of Acts providing supplemental 
appropriations for the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8105.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Navy'', $352,044,000, to remain available until 
expended, may be used for any purposes related to the National Defense 
Reserve Fleet established under section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
Act of 1946 (46 U.S.C. 57100): Provided, That such amounts are 
available for reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime 
Administration account of the United States Department of 
Transportation for programs, projects, activities, and expenses related 
to the National Defense Reserve Fleet.
    Sec. 8106.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated for activities authorized under section 1208 of the Ronald W. 
Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public 
Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1621) to initiate support for, or expand support 
to, foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals unless the 
congressional defense committees are notified in accordance with the 
direction contained in the classified annex accompanying this Act, not 
less than 15 days before initiating such support: Provided, That none 
of the funds made available in this Act may be used under section 1208 
for any activity that is not in support of an ongoing military 
operation being conducted by United States Special Operations Forces to 
combat terrorism: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
waive the prohibitions in this section if the Secretary determines that 
such waiver is required by extraordinary circumstances and, by not 
later than 72 hours after making such waiver, notifies the 
congressional defense committees of such waiver.
    Sec. 8107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used with respect to Iraq in contravention of the War Powers Resolution 
(50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the introduction of United 
States armed forces into hostilities in Iraq, into situations in Iraq 
where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the 
circumstances, or into Iraqi territory, airspace, or waters while 
equipped for combat, in contravention of the congressional consultation 
and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 4 of such Resolution (50 
U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).
    Sec. 8108.  None of the funds provided in this Act for the TAO 
Fleet Oiler program or the FFG-Frigate program shall be used to award a 
new contract that provides for the acquisition of the following 
components unless those components are manufactured in the United 
States: Auxiliary equipment (including pumps) for shipboard services; 
propulsion equipment (including engines, reduction gears, and 
propellers); shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard cranes.
    Sec. 8109.  No amounts credited or otherwise made available in this 
or any other Act to the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
Development Fund may be transferred to--
            (1) the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 
        804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note); or
            (2) credited to a military-department specific fund 
        established under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (as amended by section 
        897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2017).
    Sec. 8110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for Government Travel Charge Card expenses by military or civilian 
personnel of the Department of Defense for gaming, or for entertainment 
that includes topless or nude entertainers or participants, as 
prohibited by Department of Defense FMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3 and 
Department of Defense Instruction 1015.10 (enclosure 3, 14a and 14b).
    Sec. 8111.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be made available to deliver F-35 air vehicles or any other F-35 
weapon system equipment to the Republic of Turkey.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8112.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act, the Secretary 
of Defense may use up to $82,046,000 under the heading ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', and up to $44,001,000 under the heading 
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' to 
develop, replace, and sustain Federal Government security and 
suitability background investigation information technology systems of 
the Office of Personnel Management or other Federal agency responsible 
for conducting such investigations: Provided, That the Secretary may 
transfer additional amounts into these headings or into ``Procurement, 
Defense-Wide'' using established reprogramming procedures prescribed in 
the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 7000.14, 
Volume 3, Chapter 6, dated September 2015: Provided further, That such 
funds shall supplement, not supplant any other amounts made available 
to other Federal agencies for such purposes.
    Sec. 8113. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network is 
designed to block access to pornography websites.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities, or for any activity necessary 
for the national defense, including intelligence activities.
    Sec. 8114.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
transfer of funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
to the Global Engagement Center established by section 1287 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328; 130 Stat. 22 U.S.C. 2656 note) shall be made in accordance 
with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
    Sec. 8115.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
there is appropriated $270,000,000, for an additional amount for 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such funds shall only be available to the 
Secretary of Defense, acting through the Office of Economic Adjustment 
of the Department of Defense, or for transfer to the Secretary of 
Education, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to make grants, 
conclude cooperative agreements, or supplement other Federal funds to 
construct, renovate, repair, or expand elementary and secondary public 
schools on military installations in order to address capacity or 
facility condition deficiencies at such schools: Provided further, That 
in making such funds available, the Office of Economic Adjustment or 
the Secretary of Education shall give priority consideration to those 
military installations with schools having the most serious capacity or 
facility condition deficiencies as determined by the Secretary of 
Defense: Provided further, That as a condition of receiving funds under 
this section a local educational agency or State shall provide a 
matching share as described in the notice titled ``Department of 
Defense Program for Construction, Renovation, Repair or Expansion of 
Public Schools Located on Military Installations'' published by the 
Department of Defense in the Federal Register on September 9, 2011 (76 
Fed. Reg. 55883 et seq.): Provided further, That these provisions apply 
to funds provided under this section, and to funds previously provided 
by Congress to construct, renovate, repair, or expand elementary and 
secondary public schools on military installations in order to address 
capacity or facility condition deficiencies at such schools to the 
extent such funds remain unobligated on the date of enactment of this 
section.
    Sec. 8116.  In carrying out the program described in the memorandum 
on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the 
Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) 
Active Duty Service Members'' issued by the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to 
implement such memorandum, the Secretary of Defense shall apply such 
policy and guidance, except that--
            (1) the limitation on periods regarding embryo 
        cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in 
        part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; and
            (2) the term ``assisted reproductive technology'' shall 
        include embryo cryopreservation and storage without limitation 
        on the duration of such cryopreservation and storage.
    Sec. 8117.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to provide arms, training, or other assistance to the Azov 
Battalion.
    Sec. 8118.  None of the funds provided for, or otherwise made 
available, in this or any other Act, may be obligated or expended by 
the Secretary of Defense to provide motorized vehicles, aviation 
platforms, munitions other than small arms and munitions appropriate 
for customary ceremonial honors, operational military units, or 
operational military platforms if the Secretary determines that 
providing such units, platforms, or equipment would undermine the 
readiness of such units, platforms, or equipment.
    Sec. 8119.  The Secretary of Defense may obligate and expend funds 
made available under this Act for procurement or for research, 
development, test and evaluation for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter to 
modify up to six F-35 aircraft, including up to two F-35 aircraft of 
each variant, to a test configuration: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Air Force 
and the Secretary of the Navy, notify the congressional defense 
committees not fewer than 30 days prior to obligating and expending 
funds under this section: Provided further, That any transfer of funds 
pursuant to the authority provided in this section shall be made in 
accordance with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as appropriate, if 
applicable: Provided further, That aircraft referred to previously in 
this section are not additional to aircraft referred to in section 8135 
of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019.
    Sec. 8120.  Amounts appropriated for ``Defense Health Program'' in 
this Act and hereafter may be obligated to make death gratuity 
payments, as authorized in subchapter II of chapter 75 of title 10, 
United States Code, if no appropriation for ``Military Personnel'' is 
available for obligation for such payments: Provided, That such 
obligations may subsequently be recorded against appropriations 
available for ``Military Personnel''.
    Sec. 8121. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or 
provide a loan or loan guarantee to any corporation that has any unpaid 
Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial 
and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and 
that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with 
the authority responsible for collecting such tax liability, provided 
that the applicable Federal agency is aware of the unpaid Federal tax 
liability.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the applicable Federal agency 
has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation described in 
such subsection and has made a determination that such suspension or 
debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Federal 
Government.
    Sec. 8122.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used in contravention of--
            (1) Executive Order No. 13175 (65 Fed. Reg. 67249; relating 
        to consultation and coordination with Indian Tribal 
        governments); or
            (2) section 1501.2(d)(2) of title 40, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
    Sec. 8123.  Funds appropriated for the Next Generation Aerial 
Refueling Aircraft (KC-46), Missile Segment Enhancement (MSE) Missile, 
and Trident missile programs by the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2014 (division C of Public Law 113-76) and the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2015 (division C of Public 
Law 113-235) are to remain available through fiscal year 2024 for the 
liquidation of valid obligations incurred for the programs specified in 
this section as of September 30, 2016.
    Sec. 8124.  During fiscal year 2020, any advance billing for 
background investigation services and related services purchased from 
activities financed using Defense Working Capital Funds shall be 
excluded from the calculation of cumulative advance billings under 
section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8125.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended by the Department of 
Defense for the Space Development Agency (SDA), and not more than 50 
percent of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act may be obligated or expended by the Department of Defense for the 
Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared program (PE 1206442F) 
until a period of 90 days has elapsed following the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Air 
Force and the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
submits to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) the proposed plan to establish the SDA, and a 
        description of the programs and projects the SDA plans to carry 
        out over the next 3 years, including associated funding 
        requirements;
            (2) a description of how the Air Force and the SDA will 
        coordinate and cooperate to develop an agreed-upon integrated 
        space architecture that will guide both SDA and Air Force 
        investments;
            (3) the process by which the SDA and the Air Force will 
        cooperate in demonstrating and prototyping new capabilities, 
        and transition to programs of record;
            (4) the proposed physical location of the SDA and the 
        proposed number of government and contractor personnel expected 
        to comprise the SDA in the first 3 years; and
            (5) a plan to transition the SDA into the Air Force not 
        later than fiscal year 2022, or into a Space Force.
    Sec. 8126.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer any element, 
personnel, property, or resources of the intelligence community, as 
defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3003), to the Space Force.
    Sec. 8127.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any prior Department of Defense appropriations 
Acts may be used to construct a wall, fence, border barriers, or border 
security infrastructure along the southern land border of the United 
States.

                                TITLE IX

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$2,743,132,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$356,392,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$104,213,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$1,007,594,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$34,812,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$11,370,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$3,599,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$16,428,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$202,644,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $5,624,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$18,507,827,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$6,561,650,000, of which up to $190,000,000 may be transferred to the 
Coast Guard ``Operating Expenses'' account: Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $1,124,791,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $9,314,379,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $8,105,206,000: Provided, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $450,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, shall be for payments to reimburse key cooperating 
nations for logistical, military, and other support, including access, 
provided to United States military and stability operations in 
Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria: 
Provided further, That such reimbursement payments may be made in such 
amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, and in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, may determine, based on documentation 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive upon 
the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 days following 
written notification to the appropriate congressional committees: 
Provided further, That these funds may be used for the purpose of 
providing specialized training and procuring supplies and specialized 
equipment and providing such supplies and loaning such equipment on a 
non-reimbursable basis to coalition forces supporting United States 
military and stability operations in Afghanistan and to counter the 
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and 15 days following written 
notification to the appropriate congressional committees: Provided 
further, That these funds may be used to support the Government of 
Jordan in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may determine, to 
enhance the ability of the armed forces of Jordan to increase or 
sustain security along its borders, upon 15 days prior written 
notification to the congressional defense committees outlining the 
amounts intended to be provided and the nature of the expenses 
incurred: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $749,178,000 to remain available until September 
30, 2021, shall be available to provide support and assistance to 
foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to conduct, 
support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or other 
Department of Defense security cooperation programs: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly reports to the 
congressional defense committees on the use of funds provided in this 
paragraph: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $37,592,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $23,036,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $8,707,000: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $29,758,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $83,291,000: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $176,909,000: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

    For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', $4,503,978,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That such funds 
shall be available to the Secretary of Defense for the purpose of 
allowing the Commander, Combined Security Transition Command--
Afghanistan, or the Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of State, to the security forces of 
Afghanistan, including the provision of equipment, supplies, services, 
training, facility and infrastructure repair, renovation, construction, 
and funding: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
obligate and expend funds made available to the Department of Defense 
in this title for additional costs associated with existing projects 
previously funded with amounts provided under the heading ``Afghanistan 
Infrastructure Fund'' in prior Acts: Provided further, That such costs 
shall be limited to contract changes resulting from inflation, market 
fluctuation, rate adjustments, and other necessary contract actions to 
complete existing projects, and associated supervision and 
administration costs and costs for design during construction: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may not use more than $50,000,000 under the 
authority provided in this section: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify in advance such contract changes and adjustments 
in annual reports to the congressional defense committees: Provided 
further, That the authority to provide assistance under this heading is 
in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign 
nations: Provided further, That contributions of funds for the purposes 
provided herein from any person, foreign government, or international 
organization may be credited to this Fund, to remain available until 
expended, and used for such purposes: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees 
in writing upon the receipt and upon the obligation of any 
contribution, delineating the sources and amounts of the funds received 
and the specific use of such contributions: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating 
from this appropriation account, notify the congressional defense 
committees in writing of the details of any such obligation: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing and not fewer than 15 days prior to 
obligating funds for any proposed new projects or transfer of funds 
between budget sub-activity groups in excess of $20,000,000: Provided 
further, That the United States may accept equipment procured using 
funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts that was 
transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan and returned by such 
forces to the United States: Provided further, That equipment procured 
using funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts, and not 
yet transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan or transferred to 
the security forces of Afghanistan and returned by such forces to the 
United States, may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense 
upon written notification to the congressional defense committees: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this heading, not 
less than $10,000,000 shall be for recruitment and retention of women 
in the Afghanistan National Security Forces, and the recruitment and 
training of female security personnel: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading and made available for the salaries and 
benefits of personnel of the Afghanistan Security Forces may only be 
used for personnel who are enrolled in the Afghanistan Personnel and 
Pay System: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund

    For the ``Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Train and Equip 
Fund'', $1,295,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided, That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Defense in coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide 
assistance, including training; equipment; logistics support, supplies, 
and services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation; and 
sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
individuals participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and their affiliated or 
associated groups: Provided further, That these funds may be used in 
such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may determine to enhance the 
border security of nations adjacent to conflict areas including Jordan, 
Lebanon, Egypt, and Tunisia resulting from actions of the Islamic State 
of Iraq and Syria: Provided further, That amounts made available under 
this heading shall be available to provide assistance only for 
activities in a country designated by the Secretary of Defense, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, as having a security mission 
to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and following written 
notification to the congressional defense committees of such 
designation: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
ensure that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces or 
individuals, such elements or individuals are appropriately vetted, 
including at a minimum, assessing such elements for associations with 
terrorist groups or groups associated with the Government of Iran; and 
receiving commitments from such elements to promote respect for human 
rights and the rule of law: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating from this 
appropriation account, notify the congressional defense committees in 
writing of the details of any such obligation: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Defense may accept and retain contributions, including 
assistance in-kind, from foreign governments, including the Government 
of Iraq and other entities, to carry out assistance authorized under 
this heading: Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
purposes provided herein from any foreign government or other entity 
may be credited to this Fund, to remain available until expended, and 
used for such purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
may waive a provision of law relating to the acquisition of items and 
support services or sections 40 and 40A of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) if the Secretary determines that such 
provision of law would prohibit, restrict, delay or otherwise limit the 
provision of such assistance and a notice of and justification for such 
waiver is submitted to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives: Provided further, That the United States may accept 
equipment procured using funds provided under this heading, or under 
the heading, ``Iraq Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, that was 
transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups 
participating, or preparing to participate in activities to counter the 
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and returned by such forces or groups 
to the United States, and such equipment may be treated as stocks of 
the Department of Defense upon written notification to the 
congressional defense committees: Provided further, That equipment 
procured using funds provided under this heading, or under the heading, 
``Iraq Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, and not yet transferred to 
security forces, irregular forces, or groups participating, or 
preparing to participate in activities to counter the Islamic State of 
Iraq and Syria may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense 
when determined by the Secretary to no longer be required for transfer 
to such forces or groups and upon written notification to the 
congressional defense committees: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Defense shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense 
committees on the use of funds provided under this heading, including, 
but not limited to, the number of individuals trained, the nature and 
scope of support and sustainment provided to each group or individual, 
the area of operations for each group, and the contributions of other 
countries, groups, or individuals: Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$482,091,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$1,414,218,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $353,454,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$148,682,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$1,105,850,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$119,045,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$116,429,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $204,814,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2022: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$351,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$20,589,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$513,310,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$201,671,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $939,433,000 to remain available until September 30, 2022: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$4,011,201,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$465,987,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account

    For procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical and 
support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement items for the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces, $1,300,000,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022: Provided, That the 
Chiefs of National Guard and Reserve components shall, not later than 
30 days after enactment of this Act, individually submit to the 
congressional defense committees the modernization priority assessment 
for their respective National Guard or Reserve component: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by this paragraph may be 
used to procure manned fixed wing aircraft, or procure or modify 
missiles, munitions, or ammunition: Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $169,074,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $164,410,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $128,248,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $382,636,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$20,100,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$347,746,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $153,100,000: Provided, That the transfer 
authority contained in section 9002 in title IX of this Act shall not 
apply to amounts made available under this heading: Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Inspector 
General'', $24,254,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 9001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title are in addition to amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2020.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 9002.  Upon the determination of the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may, 
with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer up 
to $500,000,000 between the appropriations or funds made available to 
the Department of Defense in this title: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall notify the Congress promptly of each transfer made pursuant to 
the authority in this section: Provided further, That the authority 
provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms 
and conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of this Act.
    Sec. 9003.  Supervision and administration costs and costs for 
design during construction associated with a construction project 
funded with appropriations available for operation and maintenance or 
the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' provided in this Act and 
executed in direct support of overseas contingency operations in 
Afghanistan, may be obligated at the time a construction contract is 
awarded: Provided, That, for the purpose of this section, supervision 
and administration costs and costs for design during construction 
include all in-house Government costs.
    Sec. 9004.  From funds made available in this title, the Secretary 
of Defense may purchase for use by military and civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense in the United States Central Command area of 
responsibility: (1) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 
per vehicle; and (2) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical 
security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to a limit of 
$450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other limitations 
applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.
    Sec. 9005.  Not to exceed $5,000,000 of the amounts appropriated by 
this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to fund the 
Commanders' Emergency Response Program (CERP), for the purpose of 
enabling military commanders in Afghanistan to respond to urgent, 
small-scale, humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within 
their areas of responsibility: Provided, That each project (including 
any ancillary or related elements in connection with such project) 
executed under this authority shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided 
further, That not later than 45 days after the end of each 6 months of 
the fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report regarding the source of funds 
and the allocation and use of funds during that 6-month period that 
were made available pursuant to the authority provided in this section 
or under any other provision of law for the purposes described herein: 
Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after the end of each 
fiscal year quarter, the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees quarterly commitment, obligation, and expenditure data for 
the CERP in Afghanistan: Provided further, That, not less than 15 days 
before making funds available pursuant to the authority provided in 
this section or under any other provision of law for the purposes 
described herein for a project with a total anticipated cost for 
completion of $500,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a written notice containing each of 
the following:
            (1) The location, nature and purpose of the proposed 
        project, including how the project is intended to advance the 
        military campaign plan for the country in which it is to be 
        carried out.
            (2) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
        and completion date for the proposed project, including any 
        other CERP funding that has been or is anticipated to be 
        contributed to the completion of the project.
            (3) A plan for the sustainment of the proposed project, 
        including the agreement with either the host nation, a non-
        Department of Defense agency of the United States Government or 
        a third-party contributor to finance the sustainment of the 
        activities and maintenance of any equipment or facilities to be 
        provided through the proposed project.
    Sec. 9006.  Funds available to the Department of Defense for 
operation and maintenance may be used, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, to provide supplies, services, transportation, 
including airlift and sealift, and other logistical support to allied 
forces participating in a combined operation with the armed forces of 
the United States and coalition forces supporting military and 
stability operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
Iraq and Syria: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees regarding 
support provided under this section.
    Sec. 9007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or expended by 
the United States Government for a purpose as follows:
            (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Iraq.
            (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
        of Iraq.
            (3) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Afghanistan.
    Sec. 9008.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations 
promulgated to implement the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at 
New York on December 10, 1984):
            (1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 
        112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations 
        prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of 
        title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 22, 
        Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
        Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in 
        the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public 
        Law 109-148).
    Sec. 9009.  None of the funds provided for the ``Afghanistan 
Security Forces Fund'' (ASFF) may be obligated prior to the approval of 
a financial and activity plan by the Afghanistan Resources Oversight 
Council (AROC) of the Department of Defense: Provided, That the AROC 
must approve the requirement and acquisition plan for any service 
requirements in excess of $50,000,000 annually and any non-standard 
equipment requirements in excess of $100,000,000 using ASFF: Provided 
further, That the Department of Defense must certify to the 
congressional defense committees that the AROC has convened and 
approved a process for ensuring compliance with the requirements in the 
preceding proviso and accompanying report language for the ASFF.
    Sec. 9010.  Funds made available in this title to the Department of 
Defense for operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
having an investment unit cost of not more than $250,000: Provided, 
That, upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action 
is necessary to meet the operational requirements of a Commander of a 
Combatant Command engaged in contingency operations overseas, such 
funds may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost 
of not more than $500,000.
    Sec. 9011.  Up to $500,000,000 of funds appropriated by this Act 
for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency in ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be used to provide assistance to the 
Government of Jordan to support the armed forces of Jordan and to 
enhance security along its borders.
    Sec. 9012.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'' may be used to procure or 
transfer man-portable air defense systems.
    Sec. 9013.  For the ``Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative'', 
$250,000,000 is hereby appropriated, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020: Provided, That such funds shall be available to the 
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to 
provide assistance, including training; equipment; lethal assistance; 
logistics support, supplies and services; sustainment; and intelligence 
support to the military and national security forces of Ukraine, and 
for replacement of any weapons or articles provided to the Government 
of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States: Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available in this section, $50,000,000 shall 
be available only for lethal assistance described in paragraphs (2) and 
(3) of section 1250(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068): Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to 
obligating funds provided under this heading, notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the details of any such obligation: 
Provided further, That the United States may accept equipment procured 
using funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts that was 
transferred to the security forces of Ukraine and returned by such 
forces to the United States: Provided further, That equipment procured 
using funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts, and not 
yet transferred to the military or National Security Forces of Ukraine 
or returned by such forces to the United States, may be treated as 
stocks of the Department of Defense upon written notification to the 
congressional defense committees: Provided further, That amounts made 
available by this section are designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
    Sec. 9014.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
replacement of funds for items provided to the Government of Ukraine 
from the inventory of the United States to the extent specifically 
provided for in section 9013 of this Act.
    Sec. 9015.  None of the funds made available by this Act under 
section 9013 may be used to procure or transfer man-portable air 
defense systems.
    Sec. 9016.  Equipment procured using funds provided in prior Acts 
under the heading ``Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund'' for the 
program authorized by section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291), and not yet transferred to authorized recipients 
may be transferred to foreign security forces, irregular forces, 
groups, or individuals, authorized to receive assistance using amounts 
provided under the heading ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'' in 
this Act: Provided, That such equipment may be transferred 15 days 
following written notification to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 9017. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'' for payments under section 1233 of Public Law 110-181 
for reimbursement to the Government of Pakistan may be made available 
unless the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
State, certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
Government of Pakistan is--
            (1) cooperating with the United States in counterterrorism 
        efforts against the Haqqani Network, the Quetta Shura Taliban, 
        Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al Qaeda, and other 
        domestic and foreign terrorist organizations, including taking 
        steps to end support for such groups and prevent them from 
        basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out cross border 
        attacks into neighboring countries;
            (2) not supporting terrorist activities against United 
        States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's 
        military and intelligence agencies are not intervening extra-
        judicially into political and judicial processes in Pakistan;
            (3) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) networks 
        and interdicting precursor chemicals used in the manufacture of 
        IEDs;
            (4) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
        material and expertise;
            (5) implementing policies to protect judicial independence 
        and due process of law;
            (6) issuing visas in a timely manner for United States 
        visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and assistance 
        programs in Pakistan; and
            (7) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
        detainees, internally displaced persons, and other Pakistani 
        civilians affected by the conflict.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
State, may waive the restriction in subsection (a) on a case-by-case 
basis by certifying in writing to the congressional defense committees 
that it is in the national security interest to do so: Provided, That 
if the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
State, exercises such waiver authority, the Secretaries shall report to 
the congressional defense committees on both the justification for the 
waiver and on the requirements of this section that the Government of 
Pakistan was not able to meet: Provided further, That such report may 
be submitted in classified form if necessary.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 9018.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
Act, $500,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense 
and made available for transfer only to the operation and maintenance, 
military personnel, and procurement accounts, to improve near-term 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities and related 
processing, exploitation, and dissemination functions of the Department 
of Defense: Provided, That the transfer authority provided in this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That not later than 30 days 
prior to exercising the transfer authority provided in this section, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the congressional 
defense committees on the proposed uses of these funds: Provided 
further, That the funds provided in this section may not be transferred 
to any program, project, or activity specifically limited or denied by 
this Act: Provided further, That such funds may not be obligated for 
new start efforts: Provided further, That amounts made available by 
this section are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: 
Provided further, That the authority to provide funding under this 
section shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
    Sec. 9019.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used with respect to Syria in contravention of the War Powers 
Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the introduction of 
United States armed or military forces into hostilities in Syria, into 
situations in Syria where imminent involvement in hostilities is 
clearly indicated by the circumstances, or into Syrian territory, 
airspace, or waters while equipped for combat, in contravention of the 
congressional consultation and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 
4 of that law (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).
    Sec. 9020.  None of the funds in this Act may be made available for 
the transfer of additional C-130 cargo aircraft to the Afghanistan 
National Security Forces or the Afghanistan Air Force until the 
Department of Defense provides a report to the congressional defense 
committees of the Afghanistan Air Force's medium airlift requirements. 
The report should identify Afghanistan's ability to utilize and 
maintain existing medium lift aircraft in the inventory and the best 
alternative platform, if necessary, to provide additional support to 
the Afghanistan Air Force's current medium airlift capacity.
    Sec. 9021.  Funds available for the Afghanistan Security Forces 
Fund may be used to provide limited training, equipment, and other 
assistance that would otherwise be prohibited by 10 U.S.C. 362 to a 
unit of the security forces of Afghanistan only if the Secretary 
certifies to the congressional defense committees, within 30 days of a 
decision to provide such assistance, that (1) a denial of such 
assistance would present significant risk to U.S. or coalition forces 
or significantly undermine United States national security objectives 
in Afghanistan; and (2) the Secretary has sought a commitment by the 
Government of Afghanistan to take all necessary corrective steps: 
Provided, That such certification shall be accompanied by a report 
describing: (1) the information relating to the gross violation of 
human rights; (2) the circumstances that necessitated the provision of 
such assistance; (3) the Afghan security force unit involved; (4) the 
assistance provided and the assistance withheld; and (5) the corrective 
steps to be taken by the Government of Afghanistan: Provided further, 
That every 120 days after the initial report an additional report shall 
be submitted detailing the status of any corrective steps taken by the 
Government of Afghanistan: Provided further, That if the Government of 
Afghanistan has not initiated necessary corrective steps within 1 year 
of the certification, the authority under this section to provide 
assistance to such unit shall no longer apply: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall submit a report to such committees detailing the 
final disposition of the case by the Government of Afghanistan.
    Sec. 9022.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to pay the expenses of any member of the Taliban to participate in 
any meeting that does not include the participation of members of the 
Government of Afghanistan or that restricts the participation of women.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 9023.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts: Provided, 
That such amounts are designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:
    ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide: Defense Security 
Cooperation Account'', 2019/2020, $7,000,000;
    ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 2019/2020, $30,000,000;
    ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'', 2019/2020, $13,000,000; and
    ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps'', 2019/2021, 
$16,574,000.
    Sec. 9024.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) 
only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
transmits such designations to the Congress.
    Sec. 9025. (a) The Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) is hereby repealed.
    (b) The repeal contained in subsection (a)--
            (1) takes effect on the date that is 240 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) applies with respect to each operation or other action 
        that is being carried out pursuant to the Authorization for Use 
        of Military Force initiated before such effective date.
    Sec. 9026.  Nothing in this Act may be construed as authorizing the 
use of force against Iran.

   TITLE X--TO DIRECT THE REMOVAL OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES FROM 
 HOSTILITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY 
                                CONGRESS

SEC. 10001. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Congress has the sole power to declare war under 
        article I, section 8, clause 11 of the United States 
        Constitution.
            (2) Congress has not declared war with respect to, or 
        provided a specific statutory authorization for, the conflict 
        between military forces led by Saudi Arabia, including forces 
        from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Egypt, Jordan, 
        Morocco, Senegal, and Sudan (the Saudi-led coalition), against 
        the Houthis, also known as Ansar Allah, in the Republic of 
        Yemen.
            (3) Since March 2015, members of the United States Armed 
        Forces have been introduced into hostilities between the Saudi-
        led coalition and the Houthis, including providing to the 
        Saudi-led coalition aerial targeting assistance, intelligence 
        sharing, and mid-flight aerial refueling.
            (4) The United States has established a Joint Combined 
        Planning Cell with Saudi Arabia, in which members of the United 
        States Armed Forces assist in aerial targeting and help to 
        coordinate military and intelligence activities.
            (5) In December 2017, Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis 
        stated, ``We have gone in to be very--to be helpful where we 
        can in identifying how you do target analysis and how you make 
        certain you hit the right thing.''.
            (6) The conflict between the Saudi-led coalition and the 
        Houthis constitutes, within the meaning of section 4(a) of the 
        War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543(a)), either hostilities 
        or a situation where imminent involvement in hostilities is 
        clearly indicated by the circumstances into which United States 
        Armed Forces have been introduced.
            (7) Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 
        1544(c)) states that ``at any time that United States Armed 
        Forces are engaged in hostilities outside the territory of the 
        United States, its possessions and territories without a 
        declaration of war or specific statutory authorization, such 
        forces shall be removed by the President if the Congress so 
        directs''.
            (8) Section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 
        1547(c)) defines the introduction of United States Armed Forces 
        to include ``the assignment of members of such armed forces to 
        command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, or 
        accompany the regular or irregular military forces of any 
        foreign country or government when such military forces are 
        engaged, or there exists an imminent threat that such forces 
        will become engaged, in hostilities,'' and activities that the 
        United States is conducting in support of the Saudi-led 
        coalition, including aerial refueling and targeting assistance, 
        fall within this definition.
            (9) Section 1013 of the Department of State Authorization 
        Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (50 U.S.C. 1546a) provides that 
        any joint resolution or bill to require the removal of United 
        States Armed Forces engaged in hostilities without a 
        declaration of war or specific statutory authorization shall be 
        considered in accordance with the expedited procedures of 
        section 601(b) of the International Security and Arms Export 
        Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 765).
            (10) No specific statutory authorization for the use of 
        United States Armed Forces with respect to the conflict between 
        the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen has been 
        enacted, and no provision of law explicitly authorizes the 
        provision of targeting assistance or of midair refueling 
        services to warplanes of Saudi Arabia or the United Arab 
        Emirates that are engaged in such conflict.

SEC. 10002. REMOVAL OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES FROM HOSTILITIES IN 
              THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY 
              CONGRESS.

    Pursuant to section 1013 of the Department of State Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (50 U.S.C. 1546a) and in accordance 
with the provisions of section 601(b) of the International Security 
Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-329; 90 
Stat. 765), Congress hereby directs the President to remove United 
States Armed Forces from hostilities in or affecting the Republic of 
Yemen, except United States Armed Forces engaged in operations directed 
at al Qaeda or associated forces, by not later than the date that is 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act (unless the President 
requests and Congress authorizes a later date), and unless and until a 
declaration of war or specific authorization for such use of United 
States Armed Forces has been enacted. For purposes of this title, in 
this section, the term ``hostilities'' includes in-flight refueling of 
non-United States aircraft conducting missions as part of the ongoing 
civil war in Yemen.

SEC. 10003. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING CONTINUED MILITARY 
              OPERATIONS AND COOPERATION WITH ISRAEL.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to influence or disrupt 
any military operations and cooperation with Israel.

SEC. 10004. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING INTELLIGENCE SHARING.

    Nothing in this title may be construed to influence or disrupt any 
intelligence, counterintelligence, or investigative activities relating 
to threats in or emanating from Yemen conducted by, or in conjunction 
with, the United States Government involving--
            (1) the collection of intelligence;
            (2) the analysis of intelligence; or
            (3) the sharing of intelligence between the United States 
        and any coalition partner if the President determines such 
        sharing is appropriate and in the national security interests 
        of the United States.

SEC. 10005. REPORT ON RISKS POSED BY CEASING SAUDI ARABIA SUPPORT 
              OPERATIONS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the President shall submit to Congress a report assessing the risks 
posed to United States citizens and the civilian population of Saudi 
Arabia and the risk of regional humanitarian crises if the United 
States were to cease support operations with respect to the conflict 
between the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen.

SEC. 10006. REPORT ON INCREASED RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS TO UNITED 
              STATES ARMED FORCES ABROAD, ALLIES, AND THE CONTINENTAL 
              UNITED STATES IF SAUDI ARABIA CEASES YEMEN-RELATED 
              INTELLIGENCE SHARING WITH THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the President shall submit to Congress a report assessing the increased 
risk of terrorist attacks on United States Armed Forces abroad, allies, 
and to the continental United States if the Government of Saudi Arabia 
were to cease Yemen-related intelligence sharing with the United 
States.

SEC. 10007. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING NO AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF 
              MILITARY FORCE.

    Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution (50 
U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)), nothing in this title may be construed as 
authorizing the use of military force.

                TITLE XI--ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 11001.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference 
to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 11002.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-84. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 11003.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
made available to the Taliban.
    Sec. 11004.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to implement Directive-type Memorandum (DTM)-19-004, Military 
Service by Transgender Persons and Persons with Gender Dysphoria, March 
12, 2019 (effective date April 12, 2019).
    Sec. 11005.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to issue export licenses for the following defense items, 
including defense articles, defense services, and related technical 
data, described in the certification Transmittal Numbers DDTC-17-079, 
DDTC-17-094, DDTC 17-112, DDTC-17-126, DDTC-17-128, DDTC-18-013, DDTC-
18-029, DDTC-18-030, DDTC-18-050, DDTC-18-080, DDTC-18-103, DDTC-18-
109, DDTC-18-110, DDTC-19-001, 17-0B, 17-BM, 17-CR, 17-CU, 18-AU, 18-
BE, 19-AA and 19-AR.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

   DIVISION D--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED 
                   PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                          diplomatic programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, $9,245,766,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1) (reduced by $1) 
(reduced by $500,000), of which up to $772,480,000 may remain available 
until September 30, 2021, and of which up to $4,095,899,000 may remain 
available until expended for Worldwide Security Protection: Provided, 
That of the amount made available under this heading for Worldwide 
Security Protection, $2,626,122,000 is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985: Provide further, That designated funds made 
available under this heading shall be allocated in accordance with 
paragraphs (1) through (4) as follows:
            (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
        human resources management, and salaries, including employment 
        without regard to civil service and classification laws of 
        persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000), as 
        authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
        Educational Exchange Act of 1948, $2,900,417,000, of which up 
        to $509,782,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
        regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
        activities as authorized by law, $1,955,868,000.
            (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
        for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
        including representation to certain international organizations 
        in which the United States participates pursuant to treaties 
        ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or 
        specific Acts of Congress, general administration, and arms 
        control, nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
        authorized, $780,057,000 (reduced by $500,000).
            (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
        activities, $3,609,424,000, of which up to $3,586,117,000 is 
        for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available under this heading--
                    (A) as authorized by section 810 of the United 
                States Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to 
                exceed $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
                may be credited to this appropriation from fees or 
                other payments received from English teaching, library, 
                motion pictures, and publication programs and from fees 
                from educational advising and counseling and exchange 
                visitor programs; and
                    (B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived 
                from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of 
                Blair House facilities.
            (6) Transfer of funds, reprogramming, and other matters.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                Act, funds may be reprogrammed within and between 
                paragraphs (1) through (4) under this heading subject 
                to section 7015 of this Act.
                    (B) Of the amount made available under this 
                heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds made available by this Act 
                under the heading ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
                Consular Service'', to be available only for emergency 
                evacuations and rewards, as authorized.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are 
                available for acquisition by exchange or purchase of 
                passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law and, 
                pursuant to section 1108(g) of title 31, United States 
                Code, for the field examination of programs and 
                activities in the United States funded from any account 
                contained in this title.
            (7) Clarification.--References to the ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'' account in any provision of law shall in 
        this fiscal year, and each fiscal year thereafter, be construed 
        to include the ``Diplomatic Programs'' account.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, as 
authorized, $140,000,000 (reduced by $500,000), to remain available 
until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$90,829,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(a)(1)), as it relates to post inspections: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated by this paragraph, $13,624,000 
may remain available until September 30, 2021.
    In addition, for the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction (SIGAR) for reconstruction oversight, $54,900,000, which 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, of which up 
to $8,235,000 may remain available until September 30, 2021.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $730,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not less than $272,000,000 shall be for the Fulbright Program and not 
less than $111,961,000 shall be for Citizen Exchange Program: Provided, 
That fees or other payments received from, or in connection with, 
English teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, and 
exchange visitor programs as authorized may be credited to this 
account, to remain available until expended: Provided further, That a 
portion of the Fulbright awards from the Eurasia and Central Asia 
regions shall be designated as Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, 
That any substantive modifications from the prior fiscal year to 
programs funded by this Act under this heading shall be subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations.

                        representation expenses

    For representation expenses as authorized, $7,212,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$30,890,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining, 
repairing, and planning for real property that are owned or leased by 
the Department of State, and renovating, in addition to funds otherwise 
available, the Harry S Truman Building, $781,562,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2024, of which not to exceed $25,000 may 
be used for overseas representation expenses as authorized: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
available for acquisition of furniture, furnishings, or generators for 
other departments and agencies of the United States Government.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $1,205,649,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $424,087,000 is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
as authorized, $7,885,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
Account''.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as authorized: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That such funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$5,563,619.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act 
(Public Law 96-8), $31,963,000.

         international center, washington, district of columbia

    Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived from fees collected from 
other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities at the 
International Center in accordance with section 4 of the International 
Center Act (Public Law 90-553), and, in addition, as authorized by 
section 5 of such Act, $743,000, to be derived from the reserve 
authorized by such section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
section.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions, or specific Acts of Congress, $1,520,285,000, of 
which $96,240,000 is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985: Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, at the time 
of the submission of the President's budget to Congress under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by the United 
Nations for the operations of the United Nations: Provided further, 
That any payment of arrearages under this heading shall be directed to 
activities that are mutually agreed upon by the United States and the 
respective international organization and shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available for a United States contribution to an 
international organization for the United States share of interest 
costs made known to the United States Government by such organization 
for loans incurred on or after October 1, 1984, through external 
borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $2,128,414,000, of 
which $988,656,000 is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985: Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading up to $1,159,620,000 may remain available until September 30, 
2021: Provided further, That none of the funds made available by this 
Act shall be obligated or expended for any new or expanded United 
Nations peacekeeping mission unless, at least 15 days in advance of 
voting for such mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in 
an emergency as far in advance as is practicable), the Committees on 
Appropriations are notified of: (1) the estimated cost and duration of 
the mission, the objectives of the mission, the national interest that 
will be served, and the exit strategy; and (2) the sources of funds, 
including any reprogrammings or transfers, that will be used to pay the 
cost of the new or expanded mission, and the estimated cost in future 
fiscal years: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading may be made available for obligation unless the 
Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations on a peacekeeping mission-by-mission basis that the 
United Nations is implementing effective policies and procedures to 
prevent United Nations employees, contractor personnel, and 
peacekeeping troops serving in such mission from trafficking in 
persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or committing acts of 
sexual exploitation and abuse or other violations of human rights, and 
to hold accountable individuals who engage in such acts while 
participating in such mission, including prosecution in their home 
countries and making information about such prosecutions publicly 
available on the website of the United Nations: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall work with the United Nations and foreign 
governments contributing peacekeeping troops to implement effective 
vetting procedures to ensure that such troops have not violated human 
rights: Provided further, That funds shall be available for 
peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary of State determines that 
United States manufacturers and suppliers are not being given 
opportunities to provide equipment, services, and material for United 
Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those being given to foreign 
manufacturers and suppliers: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading may be used 
for any United Nations peacekeeping mission that will involve United 
States Armed Forces under the command or operational control of a 
foreign national, unless the President's military advisors have 
submitted to the President a recommendation that such involvement is in 
the national interest of the United States and the President has 
submitted to Congress such a recommendation: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of State shall work with the United Nations and members of 
the United Nations Security Council to evaluate and prioritize 
peacekeeping missions, and to consider a draw down when mission goals 
have been substantially achieved: Provided further, That, of the 
amounts appropriated under this heading, not less than $478,994,000 
shall be disbursed to the United Nations not later than 45 days after 
the enactment of this Act for the remaining amounts necessary to pay in 
full for fiscal years 2017 and 2018 the United States share of the cost 
of international peacekeeping activities in accordance with section 
404(b)(2)(B) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995, (22 U.S.C. 287e note), as amended by section 7048(h) of 
this Act.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation expenses; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $48,170,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $29,400,000 (reduced by $4,000,000) (increased by 
$4,000,000), to remain available until expended, as authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by the North American 
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), 
$12,732,000: Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading 
for the International Joint Commission, up to $500,000 may remain 
available until September 30, 2021, and $9,000 may be made available 
for representation expenses: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided under this heading for the International Boundary Commission, 
$1,000 may be made available for representation expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $51,058,000 (increased by 
$500,000): Provided, That the United States share of such expenses may 
be advanced to the respective commissions pursuant to section 3324 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                 United States Agency for Global Media

                 international broadcasting operations

    For necessary expenses to enable the United States Agency for 
Global Media (USAGM), as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, and to make and supervise grants for radio, 
Internet, and television broadcasting to the Middle East, $798,196,000 
(increased by $500,000): Provided, That in addition to amounts 
otherwise available for such purposes, up to $34,508,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading may remain available until expended for 
satellite transmissions and Internet freedom programs, of which not 
less than $13,800,000 shall be for Internet freedom programs: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated under this heading, not 
to exceed $35,000 may be used for representation expenses, of which 
$10,000 may be used for such expenses within the United States as 
authorized, and not to exceed $30,000 may be used for representation 
expenses of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty: Provided further, That the 
USAGM shall notify the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of 
any determination by the USAGM that any of its broadcast entities, 
including its grantee organizations, provides an open platform for 
international terrorists or those who support international terrorism, 
or is in violation of the principles and standards set forth in 
subsections (a) and (b) of section 303 of the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's 
journalistic code of ethics: Provided further, That in addition to 
funds made available under this heading, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and 
revenue from business ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts from 
cooperating international organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in 
receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the 
International Broadcasting Bureau, shall remain available until 
expended for carrying out authorized purposes: Provided further, That 
any reference to the ``Broadcasting Board of Governors'' or ``BBG'', 
including in any account providing amounts to the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, in any Act making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs enacted before, on, or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act shall for this fiscal year, 
and any fiscal year thereafter, be construed to mean the ``United 
States Agency for Global Media'' or ``USAGM'', respectively.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, and 
improvement of facilities for radio, television, and digital 
transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio, television, and digital transmission and 
reception, as authorized; and physical security worldwide, in addition 
to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, $9,700,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

    For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $19,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
apportioned and obligated to the Foundation not later than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace, as 
authorized by the United States Institute of Peace Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 
et seq.), $38,634,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
which shall not be used for construction activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-Western 
Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the 
interest and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 
2020, to remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2020, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for 
purposes which are not in accordance with section 200 of title 2 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, including the restrictions on compensation 
for personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452 note), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before 
September 30, 2020, to remain available until expended.

                            East-West Center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, 
$16,700,000: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be apportioned and obligated to the Center not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National Endowment for 
Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $180,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $117,500,000 shall be allocated in the traditional 
and customary manner, including for the core institutes, and 
$62,500,000 shall be for democracy programs: Provided, That the 
requirements of section 7061(a) of this Act shall not apply to funds 
made available under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be apportioned and obligated to 
the Endowment not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, $642,000, as authorized by chapter 3123 of 
title 54, United States Code: Provided, That the Commission may procure 
temporary, intermittent, and other services notwithstanding paragraph 
(3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further, That such 
authority shall terminate on October 1, 2020: Provided further, That 
the Commission shall notify the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
exercising such authority.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), as authorized by title II of 
the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et 
seq.), $4,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
including not more than $4,000 for representation expenses.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304 (22 U.S.C. 
3001 et seq.), $2,579,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized by title III of the U.S.-
China Relations Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, 
including not more than $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of the Floyd 
D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22 
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided, That the authorities, requirements, limitations, and 
conditions contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2020 and shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading as if included in this Act.

               Western Hemisphere Drug Policy Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Western Hemisphere Drug Policy 
Commission, as authorized by title VI of the Department of State 
Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323), $500,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,404,756,000, of which up to 
$210,713,000 may remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in this title may be made available 
to finance the construction (including architect and engineering 
services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices for use by the 
United States Agency for International Development, unless the USAID 
Administrator has identified such proposed use of funds in a report 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
the obligation of funds for such purposes: Provided further, That 
contracts or agreements entered into with funds appropriated under this 
heading may entail commitments for the expenditure of such funds 
through the following fiscal year: Provided further, That the authority 
of sections 610 and 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
exercised by the Secretary of State to transfer funds appropriated to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to ``Operating Expenses'' in 
accordance with the provisions of those sections: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated or made available under this heading, 
not to exceed $250,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses, and not to exceed $100,500 shall be for 
official residence expenses, for USAID during the current fiscal year.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses for overseas construction and related costs, 
and for the procurement and enhancement of information technology and 
related capital investments, pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $210,300,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $75,500,000, of which up to 
$11,325,000 may remain available until September 30, 2021, for the 
Office of Inspector General of the United States Agency for 
International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, as follows:

                         global health programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 
and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global 
health activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, $3,366,500,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021, and which 
shall be apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development not later than 30 days after enactment of 
this Act: Provided, That this amount shall be made available for 
training, equipment, and technical assistance to build the capacity of 
public health institutions and organizations in developing countries, 
and for such activities as: (1) child survival and maternal health 
programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration programs; (3) other 
health, nutrition, water and sanitation programs which directly address 
the needs of mothers and children, and related education programs; (4) 
assistance for children displaced or orphaned by causes other than 
AIDS; (5) programs for the prevention, treatment, control of, and 
research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and other 
infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, and for 
assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/AIDS, including 
children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness 
training for health crises; (7) programs to prevent, prepare for, and 
respond to, unanticipated and emerging global health threats; and (8) 
family planning/reproductive health: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this paragraph may be made available for a United 
States contribution to The GAVI Alliance: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts may be made available to any 
organization or program which, as determined by the President of the 
United States, supports or participates in the management of a program 
of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, 
That any determination made under the previous proviso must be made not 
later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and must 
be accompanied by the evidence and criteria utilized to make the 
determination: Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this Act may be used to pay for the performance of abortion as a 
method of family planning or to motivate or coerce any person to 
practice abortions: Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph 
shall be construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against 
abortion under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under this Act 
may be used to lobby for or against abortion: Provided further, That in 
order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall 
be available only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, 
either directly or through referral to, or information about access to, 
a broad range of family planning methods and services, and that any 
such voluntary family planning project shall meet the following 
requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the project 
shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other numerical 
targets, of total number of births, number of family planning 
acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family planning (this 
provision shall not be construed to include the use of quantitative 
estimates or indicators for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the 
project shall not include payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or 
financial reward to: (A) an individual in exchange for becoming a 
family planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel for achieving a 
numerical target or quota of total number of births, number of family 
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or benefit, 
including the right of access to participate in any program of general 
welfare or the right of access to health care, as a consequence of any 
individual's decision not to accept family planning services; (4) the 
project shall provide family planning acceptors comprehensible 
information on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
including those conditions that might render the use of the method 
inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be consequent to 
the use of the method; and (5) the project shall ensure that 
experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and medical procedures are 
provided only in the context of a scientific study in which 
participants are advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less 
than 60 days after the date on which the USAID Administrator determines 
that there has been a violation of the requirements contained in 
paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or 
practice of violations of the requirements contained in paragraph (4) 
of this proviso, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report containing a description of such violation and 
the corrective action taken by the Agency: Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, 
all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this or any other Act 
authorizing or appropriating funds for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates 
to family planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
provision, consistent with local law, of information or counseling 
about all pregnancy options: Provided further, That information 
provided about the use of condoms as part of projects or activities 
that are funded from amounts appropriated by this Act shall be 
medically accurate and shall include the public health benefits and 
failure rates of such use.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treatment, and 
control of, and research on, HIV/AIDS, $5,930,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2024, which shall be apportioned directly 
to the Department of State not later than 30 days after enactment of 
this Act: Provided, That funds appropriated under this paragraph may be 
made available, notwithstanding any other provision of law, except for 
the United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and 
Malaria Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-25), for a United States 
contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
(Global Fund): Provided further, That the amount of such contribution 
shall be $1,560,000,000 and shall be for the first installment of the 
sixth replenishment: Provided further, That up to 5 percent of the 
aggregate amount of funds made available to the Global Fund in fiscal 
year 2020 may be made available to USAID for technical assistance 
related to the activities of the Global Fund, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this paragraph, up to 
$17,000,000 may be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available for such purposes, for administrative expenses of the Office 
of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103, 
105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $4,164,867,000 (reduced by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds made available under this 
heading shall be apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development not later than 30 days after enactment of 
this Act.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for international disaster 
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance, $4,435,312,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $1,733,980,000 is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided, That funds 
made available under this heading shall be apportioned to the United 
States Agency for International Development not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act.

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster rehabilitation 
and reconstruction assistance administered by the Office of Transition 
Initiatives, United States Agency for International Development, 
pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$92,043,000, to remain available until expended, to support transition 
to democracy and long-term development of countries in crisis: 
Provided, That if the Secretary of State determines that it is 
important to the national interest of the United States to provide 
transition assistance in excess of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, up to $15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this Act to 
carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 may be used for purposes of this heading and under the authorities 
applicable to funds appropriated under this heading: Provided further, 
That funds made available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
made available subject to prior consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                          complex crises fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to support programs and activities administered 
by the United States Agency for International Development to prevent or 
respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign challenges and complex crises 
overseas, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That funds appropriated under this heading may be made available on 
such terms and conditions as are appropriate and necessary for the 
purposes of preventing or responding to such challenges and crises, 
except that no funds shall be made available for lethal assistance or 
to respond to natural disasters: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and 7018 of 
this Act and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
used for administrative expenses, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, except that such expenses may not exceed 5 
percent of the funds appropriated under this heading: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under this heading shall be apportioned to 
USAID not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, except that such notifications shall be transmitted at 
least 5 days prior to the obligation of funds.

                             democracy fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy globally, 
including to carry out the purposes of section 502(b)(3) and (5) of 
Public Law 98-164 (22 U.S.C. 4411), $172,700,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, which shall be made available for the Human 
Rights and Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and 
Labor, Department of State:  Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this heading that are made available to the National Endowment for 
Democracy and its core institutes are in addition to amounts otherwise 
available by this Act for such purposes: Provided further, That the 
Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department 
of State, shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
the initial obligation of funds appropriated under this paragraph.
    For an additional amount for such purposes, $101,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, which shall be made available for 
the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United 
States Agency for International Development.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102-511), 
and the Support for Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 
(Public Law 101-179), $770,334,000 (increased by $40,000,000) (reduced 
by $40,000,000) (increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, which shall be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except section 7046 of this 
Act, for assistance and related programs for countries identified in 
section 3 of Public Law 102-511 (22 U.S.C. 5801) and section 3(c) of 
Public Law 101-179 (22 U.S.C. 5402), in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated by this 
Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'' that are made available for assistance 
for such countries shall be administered in accordance with the 
responsibilities of the coordinator designated pursuant to section 102 
of Public Law 102-511 and section 601 of Public Law 101-179: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered 
to be economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be made available for 
contributions to multilateral initiatives to counter hybrid threats: 
Provided further, That any notification of funds made available under 
this heading in this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall 
include information (if known on the date of transmittal of such 
notification) on the use of notwithstanding authority: Provided 
further, That if subsequent to the notification of assistance it 
becomes necessary to rely on notwithstanding authority, the Committees 
on Appropriations should be informed at the earliest opportunity and to 
the extent practicable.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to enable the 
Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and (b) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $3,532,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000), 
to remain available until expended, of which $1,400,124,000 is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided, That not 
less than $35,000,000 shall be made available to respond to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements, and $5,000,000 shall be made 
available for refugees resettling in Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2601(c)), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That amounts in excess of the limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) of such section shall be transferred to, and merged with, 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Migration and 
Refugee Assistance''.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States, $425,000,000, of which $6,330,000 is 
for the Office of Inspector General, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as authorized by 
section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to 
the previous proviso may not be derived from amounts made available for 
Peace Corps overseas operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may be 
available for representation expenses, of which not to exceed $4,000 
may be made available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to 
pay for abortions: Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous 
proviso, section 614 of division E of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading.

                    millennium challenge corporation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA), 
$905,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, up to $109,000,000 may be 
available for administrative expenses of the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation, except that such funds shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2021: Provided further, That section 
605(e) of the MCA shall apply to funds appropriated under this heading: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
made available for a Millennium Challenge Compact entered into pursuant 
to section 609 of the MCA only if such Compact obligates, or contains a 
commitment to obligate subject to the availability of funds and the 
mutual agreement of the parties to the Compact to proceed, the entire 
amount of the United States Government funding anticipated for the 
duration of the Compact: Provided further, That no country should be 
eligible for a threshold program after such country has completed a 
country compact: Provided further, That any funds that are deobligated 
from a Millennium Challenge Compact shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
re-obligation: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, not to exceed $100,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.

                       inter-american foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $32,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not to exceed $2,000 may be available for 
representation expenses.

              united states african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the African Development 
Foundation Act (title V of Public Law 96-533; 22 U.S.C. 290h et seq.), 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which not 
to exceed $2,000 may be available for representation expenses:  
Provided, That funds made available to grantees may be invested pending 
expenditure for project purposes when authorized by the Board of 
Directors of the United States African Development Foundation (USADF): 
Provided further, That interest earned shall be used only for the 
purposes for which the grant was made: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation 
Act (22 U.S.C. 290h-3(a)(2)), in exceptional circumstances the Board of 
Directors of the USADF may waive the $250,000 limitation contained in 
that section with respect to a project and a project may exceed the 
limitation by up to 10 percent if the increase is due solely to foreign 
currency fluctuation: Provided further, That the USADF shall submit a 
report to the appropriate congressional committees after each time such 
waiver authority is exercised: Provided further, That the USADF may 
make rent or lease payments in advance from appropriations available 
for such purpose for offices, buildings, grounds, and quarters in 
Africa as may be necessary to carry out its functions: Provided 
further, That the USADF may maintain bank accounts outside the United 
States Treasury and retain any interest earned on such accounts, in 
furtherance of the purposes of the African Development Foundation Act: 
Provided further, That the USADF may not withdraw any appropriation 
from the Treasury prior to the need of spending such funds for program 
purposes.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which not more than $6,000,000 may be used for 
administrative expenses: Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading may be made available to contract for services as 
described in section 129(d)(3)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, without regard to the location in which such services are 
performed.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,153,763,000 
(increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds designated for a 
Diplomatic Progress Fund in the table under this heading in the report 
accompanying this Act shall be subject to prior consultation with, and 
the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading shall be apportioned not later than 30 days after enactment of 
this Act.

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $1,410,665,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That the Department of State may use the 
authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without 
regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property from an agency 
of the United States Government for the purpose of providing such 
property to a foreign country or international organization under 
chapter 8 of part I of such Act, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading, except that any funds made 
available notwithstanding such section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be made 
available to support training and technical assistance for foreign law 
enforcement, corrections, judges, and other judicial authorities, 
utilizing regional partners: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided under this heading, not less than $8,000,000 shall be made 
available for DNA forensic technology programs to combat human 
trafficking in Central America and Mexico: Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading that are transferred to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued 
in excess of $5,000,000, and any agreement made pursuant to section 
632(a) of such Act, shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs and activities, $886,850,000 (increased 
by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part II 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, 
chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 504 
of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for demining activities, the 
clearance of unexploded ordnance, the destruction of small arms, and 
related activities, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
including activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations, and section 301 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 for a United States contribution to the Comprehensive 
Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a voluntary 
contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA): 
Provided, That funds made available under this heading for the 
Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund shall be made available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons 
destruction, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available for the IAEA unless the Secretary of 
State determines that Israel is being denied its right to participate 
in the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That funds made 
available for conventional weapons destruction programs, including 
demining and related activities, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, may be used for administrative expenses 
related to the operation and management of such programs and 
activities, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $516,348,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, and of which $325,213,000 is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be used, notwithstanding section 
660 of such Act, to provide assistance to enhance the capacity of 
foreign civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to participate 
in peacekeeping operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $31,000,000 shall be 
made available for a United States contribution to the Multinational 
Force and Observers mission in the Sinai and not less than $71,000,000 
shall be made available for the Global Peace Operations Initiative: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading and 
designated for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism, 
may be used to pay assessed expenses of international peacekeeping 
activities in Somalia under the same terms and conditions, as 
applicable, as funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities'': Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $42,120,000 shall be disbursed to the United Nations not later 
than 45 days after the enactment of this Act for the remaining amounts 
necessary to pay in full for fiscal years 2017 and 2018 the United 
States share of the costs of peacekeeping activities in Somalia in 
accordance with section 404(b)(2)(B) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, (22 U.S.C. 287e note), 
as amended by section 7048(h) of this Act: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except 
as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $110,875,000, of which up to 
$11,000,000 may remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, 
That the civilian personnel for whom military education and training 
may be provided under this heading may include civilians who are not 
members of a government whose participation would contribute to 
improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the military, or 
respect for human rights: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $50,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses.

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$6,109,121,000, of which $350,678,000 is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 and shall remain available until September 30, 
2021: Provided, That to expedite the provision of assistance to foreign 
countries and international organizations, the Secretary of State, 
following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of such Committees, may 
use the funds appropriated under this heading to procure defense 
articles and services to enhance the capacity of foreign security 
forces: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $3,300,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel which shall be disbursed within 30 days of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of 
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel under this heading shall, as agreed by the United 
States and Israel, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than $805,300,000 shall be available for the procurement in 
Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available under this heading shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding 
any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act: Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading shall be 
obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of 
section 1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurement has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurement may be financed with such funds: Provided, 
That all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of section 7015 
of this Act:  Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities, 
and may include activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to 
make timely payment for defense articles and services: Provided 
further, That not more than $70,000,000 of the funds appropriated under 
this heading may be obligated for necessary expenses, including the 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for use 
outside of the United States, for the general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales, except that this limitation may be 
exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading for general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be available 
for representation expenses: Provided further, That not more than 
$1,009,700,000 of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the 
Arms Export Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by the 
Department of Defense during fiscal year 2020 pursuant to section 43(b) 
of the Arms Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading shall be apportioned not later than 30 
days after enactment of this Act.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                international organizations and programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $646,500,000: Provided, That 
section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
contributions to the United Nations Democracy Fund.

                  International Financial Institutions

                      global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $139,575,000, to remain available until, and 
to be fully disbursed no later than, September 30, 2021: Provided, That 
of such amount, $136,563,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020, is only available for the second installment of the 
seventh replenishment of the Global Environment Facility, and shall be 
obligated and disbursed not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the status of funds provided under this 
heading not less than quarterly until fully disbursed: Provided 
further, That in such report the Secretary shall provide a timeline for 
the obligation and disbursement of any funds that have not yet been 
obligated or disbursed.

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increases in capital stock, 
$206,500,000, to remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of increases in capital stock in an amount not to exceed 
$1,421,275,728.70.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $1,097,010,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian Development Fund 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $47,395,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $171,300,000, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until, and to be fully disbursed no later than, September 30, 2021, for 
the second installment of the eleventh replenishment of the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the status of such payment not less than quarterly 
until fully disbursed: Provided further, That in such report the 
Secretary shall provide a timeline for the obligation and disbursement 
of any funds that have not yet been obligated or disbursed.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-Import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $5,700,000, of which up to $855,000 may remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                            program account

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States 
Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the current 
fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the funds 
available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, other than a nuclear-
weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act, that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, and not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, not to 
exceed $110,000,000, of which up to $16,500,000 may remain available 
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That the Export-Import Bank (the 
Bank) may accept, and use, payment or services provided by transaction 
participants for legal, financial, or technical services in connection 
with any transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or 
insurance commitment has been made: Provided further, That the Bank 
shall charge fees for necessary expenses (including special services 
performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other personal 
services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the Bank, 
repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by 
the Bank in satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or the investigation 
or appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the legal, 
financial, or technical aspects of any transaction for which an 
application for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been 
made, or systems infrastructure directly supporting transactions: 
Provided further, That in addition to other funds appropriated for 
administrative expenses, such fees shall be credited to this account 
for such purposes, to remain available until expended.

                           receipts collected

    Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 
(Public Law 79-173) and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, in an 
amount not to exceed the amount appropriated herein, shall be credited 
as offsetting collections to this account: Provided, That the sums 
herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-
for-dollar basis by such offsetting collections so as to result in a 
final fiscal year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $0.

      United States International Development Finance Corporation

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                       corporate capital account

    The United States International Development Finance Corporation 
(the Corporation) is authorized to make such expenditures and 
commitments within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to the Corporation, and in accordance with the law, and to 
make such expenditures and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States 
Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs for the current 
fiscal year for the Corporation: Provided, That for necessary expenses 
of the activities described in subsections (b), (c), (e), (f), and (g) 
of section 1421 of the BUILD Act of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-
254), $189,000,000: Provided further, That of the amount provided--(1) 
$101,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021 for 
administrative expenses to carry out authorized activities (including 
an amount for official reception and representation expenses which 
shall not exceed $25,000); (2) $8,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021 for project-specific transaction costs as described 
in section 1434(k) of such Act; (3) $50,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021 for the activities described in section 
1421(c) of such Act; and (4) $30,000,000 shall be paid to the ``United 
States International Development Finance Corporation--Program Account'' 
for programs as authorized by section 1421(b), (e), and (f) of the 
BUILD Act of 2018: Provided further, That in this fiscal year, the 
Corporation shall collect the amounts described in section 1434(h) of 
the BUILD Act of 2018: Provided further, That in fiscal year 2020 such 
collections shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
appropriation: Provided further, such collections collected in fiscal 
year 2020 in excess of $189,000,000 shall be credited to this account 
and shall be available in future fiscal years only to the extent 
provided in advance in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That in 
fiscal year 2020, if such collections are less than $189,000,000, 
receipts collected pursuant to the BUILD Act of 2018 and the Federal 
Credit Reform Act of 1990, in an amount equal to such shortfall, shall 
be credited as offsetting collections to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
heading may not be used to provide any type of assistance that is 
otherwise prohibited by any other provision of law or to provide 
assistance to any foreign country that is otherwise prohibited by any 
other provision of law: Provided further, That the sums herein 
appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-
dollar basis by the offsetting collections described under this heading 
so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the General 
Fund estimated at $0.

                            program account

    Amounts paid from ``United States International Development Finance 
Corporation--Corporate Capital Account'' (CCA) shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That not to exceed $80,000,000 of 
amounts paid to this account from CCA or transferred pursuant to 
section 1434(j) of the BUILD Act of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-
254) shall be available for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans 
provided by the Corporation pursuant to section 1421(b) of such Act: 
Provided further, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such amounts obligated in a fiscal 
year shall remain available for disbursement for the following 8 fiscal 
years: Provided further, That funds transferred to carry out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 pursuant to section 1434(j) of the BUILD 
Act of 2018 may remain available for obligation for 1 additional fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the total loan principal or guaranteed 
principal amount shall not exceed $8,000,000,000.

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $75,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, of which no more than $19,000,000 may be used 
for administrative expenses: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not more than $5,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment expenses.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

    Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act shall be 
available, except as otherwise provided, for allowances and 
differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States 
Code; for services as authorized by section 3109 of such title and for 
hire of passenger transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 
31, United States Code.

                      unobligated balances report

    Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations a 
quarterly accounting of cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, 
but unexpended, balances by program, project, and activity, and 
Treasury Account Fund Symbol of all funds received by such department 
or agency in fiscal year 2020 or any previous fiscal year, 
disaggregated by fiscal year: Provided, That the report required by 
this section shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the end of 
each fiscal quarter and should specify by account the amount of funds 
obligated pursuant to bilateral agreements which have not been further 
sub-obligated.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under title I of 
this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to existing law.

                         diplomatic facilities

    Sec. 7004. (a) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of section 
604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 
1999 (title VI of division A of H.R. 3427, as enacted into law by 
section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G of 
that Act), as amended by section 111 of the Department of State 
Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323), a project to 
construct a facility of the United States may include office space or 
other accommodations for members of the United States Marine Corps.
    (b) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of calculating the 
fiscal year 2020 costs of providing new United States diplomatic 
facilities in accordance with section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual program level and 
agency shares in a manner that is proportional to the contribution of 
the Department of State for this purpose.
    (c) Consultation and Notification.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs, which may be made available 
for the acquisition of property or award of construction contracts for 
overseas United States diplomatic facilities during fiscal year 2020, 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
That notifications pursuant to this subsection shall include the 
information enumerated under the heading ``Embassy Security, 
Construction, and Maintenance'' in the report accompanying this Act.
    (d) Interim and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the opening, closure, or any significant 
modification to an interim or temporary United States diplomatic 
facility shall be subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
congressional committees and the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, except that such consultation and 
notification may be waived if there is a security risk to personnel.

                           personnel actions

    Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under title I of this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available under title I to such 
department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this 
Act.

                    department and agency management

    Sec. 7006. (a) Department of State.--
    (1) Working Capital Fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available to the Department of State for payments to the 
Working Capital Fund may only be used for the service centers included 
in the Congressional Budget Justification, Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2020: Provided, That the 
amounts for such service centers shall be the amounts included in such 
budget justification, except as provided in section 7015(b) of this 
Act: Provided further, That Federal agency components shall be charged 
only for their direct usage of each Working Capital Fund service: 
Provided further, That prior to increasing the percentage charged to 
Department of State bureaus and offices for procurement-related 
activities, the Secretary of State shall include the proposed increase 
in the Department of State budget justification or, at least 60 days 
prior to the increase, provide the Committees on Appropriations a 
justification for such increase, including a detailed assessment of the 
cost and benefit of the services provided by the procurement fee: 
Provided further, That Federal agency components may only pay for 
Working Capital Fund services that are consistent with the purpose and 
authorities of such components: Provided further, That the Working 
Capital Fund shall be paid in advance or reimbursed at rates which will 
return the full cost of each service.
    (2) State Department Personnel Levels.--
            (A) Funds made available by this Act are made available to 
        support the permanent Foreign Service and Civil Service staff 
        levels of the Department of State at not less than the on-board 
        levels in fiscal year 2016.
            (B) The use of funds appropriated by this Act to implement 
        any plan to expand or reduce the size of the permanent Civil 
        Service or Foreign Service workforce at the Department of State 
        from on-board levels in fiscal year 2016 shall be subject to 
        prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
        procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That 
        such notification shall include the requirements enumerated in 
        section 7062(b) of this Act.
            (C) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, and 
        every 60 days thereafter until September 30, 2021, the 
        Secretary of State shall report to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the on-board personnel levels, 
        hiring, and attrition of the Civil Service, Foreign Service, 
        eligible family member, and locally employed staff workforce of 
        the Department of State, on an operating unit-by-operating unit 
        basis: Provided, That such report shall also include a hiring 
        plan, including timelines, for maintaining the agency-wide, on-
        board Foreign Service and Civil Service at not less than the 
        on-board levels in fiscal year 2016.
    (3) Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Department of 
State.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act, prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, or any other Act, may be used to downsize, downgrade, 
consolidate, close, move, or relocate the Bureau of Population, 
Refugees, and Migration, Department of State, or any activities of such 
Bureau, to another Federal agency.
    (4) Administration of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act--
            (A) under the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
        shall be administered by the Assistant Secretary for 
        Population, Refugees, and Migration, Department of State, and 
        this responsibility shall not be delegated; and
            (B) that are made available for the Office of Global 
        Women's Issues shall be administered by the United States 
        Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues, Department of 
        State, and this responsibility shall not be delegated.
    (5) Information Technology Platform.--
            (A) None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
        under the heading ``Administration of Foreign Affairs'' may be 
        made available for a new major information technology (IT) 
        investment without the concurrence of the Chief Information 
        Officer, Department of State.
            (B) None of the funds made available by this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs may be used by an agency to 
        submit a project proposal to the Technology Modernization Board 
        for funding from the Technology Modernization Fund unless, not 
        later than 15 days in advance of submitting the project 
        proposal to the Board, the head of the agency--
                    (i) notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
                the proposed submission of the project proposal; and
                    (ii) submits to the Committees on Appropriations a 
                copy of the project proposal.
            (C) None of the funds made available by this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs may be used by an agency to 
        carry out a project that is approved by the Board unless the 
        head of the agency--
                    (i) submits to the Committees on Appropriations a 
                copy of the approved project proposal, including the 
                terms of reimbursement of funding received for the 
                project; and
                    (ii) agrees to submit to the Committees on 
                Appropriations a copy of each report relating to the 
                project that the head of the agency submits to the 
                Board.
    (b) United States Agency for International Development.--
    (1) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds made available in 
titles III and IV of this Act pursuant to or to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'', may be used by the United States Agency for 
International Development to hire and employ individuals in the United 
States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant to the 
authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 3948 and 3949).
    (2) Restriction.--The authority to hire individuals contained in 
paragraph (1) shall expire on September 30, 2021.
    (3) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the cost of 
an individual hired and employed under the authority of this subsection 
shall be the account to which the responsibilities of such individual 
primarily relate: Provided, That funds made available to carry out this 
subsection may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated 
by this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating Expenses''.
    (4) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired and 
employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, pursuant to the authority of section 309 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3949), may be extended for a 
period of up to 4 years notwithstanding the limitation set forth in 
such section.
    (5) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under titles III 
and IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be used, in 
addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, for the cost 
(including the support costs) of individuals detailed to or employed by 
USAID whose primary responsibility is to carry out programs in response 
to natural disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (6) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may be used by 
USAID to employ up to 40 personal services contractors in the United 
States, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
providing direct, interim support for new or expanded overseas programs 
and activities managed by the agency until permanent direct hire 
personnel are hired and trained: Provided, That not more than 15 of 
such contractors shall be assigned to any bureau or office: Provided 
further, That such funds appropriated to carry out title II of the Food 
for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may be made 
available only for personal services contractors assigned to the Office 
of Food for Peace.
    (7) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award indefinite-
quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID may 
provide an exception to the fair opportunity process for placing task 
orders under such contracts when the order is placed with any category 
of small or small disadvantaged business.
    (8) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--Individuals hired 
pursuant to the authority provided by section 7059(o) of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or support 
programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made available in this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs.
    (9) USAID Personnel Levels.--
            (A) Funds made available by this Act are made available to 
        support the permanent Foreign Service and Civil Service staff 
        levels of USAID at not less than the levels funded in fiscal 
        year 2016.
            (B) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, and 
        every 60 days thereafter until September 30, 2021, the USAID 
        Administrator shall report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees on the on-board personnel levels, hiring, and 
        attrition of the Civil Service, Foreign Service, and foreign 
        service national workforce of USAID, on an operating unit-by-
        operating unit basis: Provided, That such report shall also 
        include a hiring plan, including timelines, for maintaining the 
        permanent Foreign Service and Civil Service at not less than 
        the levels funded in fiscal year 2016.
    (10) USAID Reorganization.--
            (A) Not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, and 
        quarterly thereafter until September 30, 2021, the USAID 
        Administrator shall submit a report to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the status of USAID's 
        reorganization as described in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
            (B) The use of funds appropriated by this Act to implement 
        any plan to expand or reduce the size of the permanent Civil 
        Service or Foreign Service workforce at USAID from funded 
        levels in fiscal year 2016 shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
        the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That such 
        notification shall include the requirements enumerated in 
        section 7062(b) of this Act.
    (c) Foreign Assistance Review.--Programmatic, funding, and 
organizational changes resulting from implementation of the Foreign 
Assistance Review shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the 
regular notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided, That such notifications may be submitted in classified form, 
if necessary.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance or reparations 
for the governments of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria: Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, the prohibition on obligations or 
expenditures shall include direct loans, credits, insurance, and 
guarantees of the Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

    Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance to the 
government of any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by military coup d'etat or decree or, after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a coup d'etat or decree in which the military 
plays a decisive role: Provided, That assistance may be resumed to such 
government if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that subsequent to the termination 
of assistance a democratically elected government has taken office: 
Provided further, That the provisions of this section shall not apply 
to assistance to promote democratic elections or public participation 
in democratic processes: Provided further, That funds made available 
pursuant to the previous provisos shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      transfer of funds authority

    Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and United States Agency for 
Global Media.--
    (1) Department of State.--
            (A) In general.--Not to exceed 2 percent of any 
        appropriation made available for the current fiscal year for 
        the Department of State under title I of this Act may be 
        transferred between, and merged with, such appropriations, but 
        no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically 
        provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any 
        such transfers, and no such transfer may be made to increase 
        the appropriation under the heading ``Representation 
        Expenses''.
            (B) Embassy security.--Section 113 of the Department of 
        State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (22 U.S.C. 295(j)) 
        shall be applied to funds made available by this Act by 
        substituting ``fiscal year 2020'' for ``fiscal year 2018'' each 
        place it appears.
    (2) United States Agency for Global Media.--Not to exceed 5 percent 
of any appropriation made available for the current fiscal year for the 
United States Agency for Global Media under title I of this Act may be 
transferred between, and merged with, such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers.
    (3) Treatment as Reprogramming.--Any transfer pursuant to this 
subsection shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
7015 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    (b) Limitation on Transfers of Funds Between Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--None of the funds made available under 
        titles II through V of this Act may be transferred to any 
        department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
        Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
        authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations 
        Act.
            (2) Allocation and transfers.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
        (1), in addition to transfers made by, or authorized elsewhere 
        in, this Act, funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
        purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be allocated 
        or transferred to agencies of the United States Government 
        pursuant to the provisions of sections 109, 610, and 632 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and section 1434(j) of the 
        BUILD Act of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-254).
            (3) Notification.--Any agreement entered into by the United 
        States Agency for International Development or the Department 
        of State with any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
        United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 
        and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, 
        with funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs under the headings ``Global Health 
        Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
        shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That the requirement in 
        the previous sentence shall not apply to agreements entered 
        into between USAID and the Department of State.
    (c) United States International Development Finance Corporation.--
            (1) Limitation.--Amounts transferred pursuant to section 
        1434(j) of the BUILD Act of 2018 from funds made available 
        under titles III and IV of this Act shall not exceed 
        $50,000,000: Provided, That any such transfers shall be subject 
        to prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
        procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Development credit authority account.--Funds 
        transferred from Development Credit Authority program account 
        of the United States Agency for International Development to 
        the Corporate Capital Account of the United States 
        International Development Finance Corporation pursuant to 
        section 1434(i) of the BUILD Act of 2018 shall be transferred 
        and merged with such account, and may thereafter be deemed to 
        meet any minimum funding requirements attributed for at the 
        time of deposit into the Development Credit Authority program 
        account.
    (d) Transfer of Funds Between Accounts.--None of the funds made 
available under titles II through V of this Act may be obligated under 
an appropriations account to which such funds were not appropriated, 
except for transfers specifically provided for in this Act, unless the 
President, not less than 5 days prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Audit of Inter-Agency Transfers of Funds.--Any agreement for 
the transfer or allocation of funds appropriated by this Act or prior 
Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations and related programs, entered into between the Department of 
State or USAID and another agency of the United States Government under 
the authority of section 632(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
or any comparable provision of law, shall expressly provide that the 
Inspector General (IG) for the agency receiving the transfer or 
allocation of such funds, or other entity with audit responsibility if 
the receiving agency does not have an IG, shall perform periodic 
program and financial audits of the use of such funds and report to the 
Department of State or USAID, as appropriate, upon completion of such 
audits: Provided, That such audits shall be transmitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations by the Department of State or USAID, as 
appropriate: Provided further, That funds transferred under such 
authority may be made available for the cost of such audits.

              prohibition on certain operational expenses

    Sec. 7010. (a) First-Class Travel.--None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by employees 
of United States Government departments and agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of section 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
    (b) Computer Networks.--None of the funds made available by this 
Act for the operating expenses of any United States Government 
department or agency may be used to establish or maintain a computer 
network for use by such department or agency unless such network has 
filters designed to block access to sexually explicit websites: 
Provided, That nothing in this subsection shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency, or any other entity carrying out the following activities: 
criminal investigations, prosecutions, and adjudications; 
administrative discipline; and the monitoring of such websites 
undertaken as part of official business.
    (c) Prohibition on Promotion of Tobacco.--None of the funds made 
available by this Act shall be available to promote the sale or export 
of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek the reduction or removal by 
any foreign country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or 
tobacco products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally 
to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 7011. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation after the expiration of the 
current fiscal year unless expressly so provided by this Act: Provided, 
That funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 of part I, 
section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, and 
funds made available for the ``United States International Development 
Finance Corporation'' and under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'' shall remain available for an additional 2 
years from the date on which the availability of such funds would 
otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially obligated before 
the expiration of their respective periods of availability contained in 
this Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
this Act, any funds made available for the purposes of chapter 1 of 
part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
which are allocated or obligated for cash disbursements in order to 
address balance of payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall 
remain available for an additional 2 years from the date on which the 
availability of such funds would otherwise have expired, if such funds 
are initially allocated or obligated before the expiration of their 
respective periods of availability contained in this Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act that are proposed 
for rescission pursuant to section 1012 of the Congressional Budget and 
Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 683) within 60 days of the 
expiration of the period of availability of such funds and Congress has 
not completed action on a rescission bill pursuant to subsection (b) of 
such section shall remain available for an additional 90 days from the 
date on which the availability of such funds would otherwise have 
expired.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under titles III 
through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish assistance to the 
government of any country which is in default during a period in excess 
of 1 calendar year in payment to the United States of principal or 
interest on any loan made to the government of such country by the 
United States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
under this Act unless the President determines, following consultation 
with the Committees on Appropriations, that assistance for such country 
is in the national interest of the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

    Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be made 
available to provide assistance for a foreign country under a new 
bilateral agreement governing the terms and conditions under which such 
assistance is to be provided unless such agreement includes a provision 
stating that assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt 
from taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency 
for International Development shall expeditiously seek to negotiate 
amendments to existing bilateral agreements, as necessary, to conform 
with this requirement.
    (b) Notification and Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An amount 
equivalent to 200 percent of the total taxes assessed during fiscal 
year 2020 on funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs by a foreign government or entity against United 
States assistance programs, either directly or through grantees, 
contractors, and subcontractors, shall be withheld from obligation from 
funds appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2021 and for prior 
fiscal years and allocated for the central government of such country 
or for the West Bank and Gaza program, as applicable, if, not later 
than September 30, 2021, such taxes have not been reimbursed: Provided, 
That the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations by such date on the foreign governments and entities 
that have not reimbursed such taxes, including any amount of funds 
withheld pursuant to this subsection.
    (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis nature 
shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection (b).
    (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation for 
each foreign government or entity pursuant to subsection (b) shall be 
reprogrammed for assistance for countries which do not assess taxes on 
United States assistance or which have an effective arrangement that is 
providing substantial reimbursement of such taxes, and that can 
reasonably accommodate such assistance in a programmatically 
responsible manner.
    (e) Determinations.--
            (1) In general.--The provisions of this section shall not 
        apply to any foreign government or entity that assesses such 
        taxes if the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that--
                    (A) such foreign government or entity has an 
                effective arrangement that is providing substantial 
                reimbursement of such taxes; or
                    (B) the foreign policy interests of the United 
                States outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure 
                that United States assistance is not subject to 
                taxation.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary of State shall consult 
        with the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
        exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to any 
        foreign government or entity.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue and update 
rules, regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to implement 
the prohibition against the taxation of assistance contained in this 
section.
    (g) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) Bilateral agreement.--The term ``bilateral agreement'' 
        refers to a framework bilateral agreement between the 
        Government of the United States and the government of the 
        country receiving assistance that describes the privileges and 
        immunities applicable to United States foreign assistance for 
        such country generally, or an individual agreement between the 
        Government of the United States and such government that 
        describes, among other things, the treatment for tax purposes 
        that will be accorded the United States assistance provided 
        under that agreement.
            (2) Taxes and taxation.--The term ``taxes and taxation'' 
        shall include value added taxes and customs duties but shall 
        not include individual income taxes assessed to local staff.
    (h) Report.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other 
relevant agencies of the United States Government, shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations on the requirements 
contained under this section in the report accompanying this Act.

                         reservations of funds

    Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under titles III 
through VI of this Act which are specifically designated may be 
reprogrammed for other programs within the same account notwithstanding 
the designation if compliance with the designation is made impossible 
by operation of any provision of this or any other Act: Provided, That 
any such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the authority 
contained in subsection (a), the original period of availability of 
funds appropriated by this Act and administered by the Department of 
State or the United States Agency for International Development that 
are specifically designated for particular programs or activities by 
this or any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year if 
the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, 
determines and reports promptly to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the termination of assistance to a country or a significant change 
in circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds can be 
obligated during the original period of availability: Provided, That 
such designated funds that continue to be available for an additional 
fiscal year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such 
designation.
    (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated funding 
levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or 
authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any subsequent 
Act unless such Act specifically so directs: Provided, That 
specifically designated funding levels or minimum funding requirements 
contained in any other Act shall not be applicable to funds 
appropriated by this Act.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 7015. (a) Notification of Changes in Programs, Projects, and 
Activities.--None of the funds made available in titles I and II of 
this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs to the departments and 
agencies funded by this Act that remain available for obligation in 
fiscal year 2020, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
United States derived by the collection of fees or of currency reflows 
or other offsetting collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
departments and agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation to--
            (1) create new programs;
            (2) suspend or eliminate a program, project, or activity;
            (3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mission or post;
            (4) create, close, reorganize, downsize, or rename bureaus, 
        centers, or offices; or
            (5) contract out or privatize any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless previously justified to the Committees on Appropriations or such 
Committees are notified 15 days in advance of such obligation.
    (b) Notification of Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the funds 
provided under titles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, to the departments and agencies funded under titles I 
and II of this Act that remain available for obligation in fiscal year 
2020, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the department 
and agency funded under title I of this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through 
a reprogramming of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments or changes existing programs, projects, or 
        activities;
            (2) relocates an existing office or employees;
            (3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (4) results from any general savings, including savings 
        from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
        in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
        Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made available by 
this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``International Organizations and Programs'', ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', ``Millennium Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
``United States International Development Finance Corporation'', and 
``Peace Corps'', shall be available for obligation for activities, 
programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, countries, or other 
operations not justified or in excess of the amount justified to the 
Committees on Appropriations for obligation under any of these specific 
headings unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days 
in advance of such obligation: Provided, That the President shall not 
enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for the purposes of 
section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the provision of major 
defense equipment, other than conventional ammunition, or other major 
defense items defined to be aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat 
vehicles, not previously justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess 
of the quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on 
Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such commitment: 
Provided further, That requirements of this subsection or any similar 
provision of this or any other Act shall not apply to any reprogramming 
for an activity, program, or project for which funds are appropriated 
under titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 percent of the 
amount previously justified to Congress for obligation for such 
activity, program, or project for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That any notification submitted pursuant to subsection (f) of 
this section shall include information (if known on the date of 
transmittal of such notification) on the use of notwithstanding 
authority.
    (d) Department of Defense Programs and Funding Notifications.--
            (1) Programs.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs may be made 
        available to support or continue any program initially funded 
        under any authority of title 10, United States Code, or any Act 
        making or authorizing appropriations for the Department of 
        Defense, unless the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Defense and in accordance with the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
        submits a justification to such Committees that includes a 
        description of, and the estimated costs associated with, the 
        support or continuation of such program.
            (2) Funding.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        funds transferred by the Department of Defense to the 
        Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development for assistance for foreign countries 
        and international organizations shall be subject to the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Notification on excess defense articles.--Prior to 
        providing excess Department of Defense articles in accordance 
        with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the 
        Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
        Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions 
        as other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of that section: 
        Provided, That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess 
        defense articles under the Arms Export Control Act, the 
        Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
        Appropriations in accordance with the regular notification 
        procedures of such Committees if such defense articles are 
        significant military equipment (as defined in section 47(9) of 
        the Arms Export Control Act) or are valued (in terms of 
        original acquisition cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if 
        notification is required elsewhere in this Act for the use of 
        appropriated funds for specific countries that would receive 
        such excess defense articles: Provided further, That such 
        Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition 
        cost of such defense articles.
    (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any similar 
provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if 
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or 
welfare: Provided, That in case of any such waiver, notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early as practicable, 
but in no event later than 3 days after taking the action to which such 
notification requirement was applicable, in the context of the 
circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any 
notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (f) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be obligated 
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, Bahrain, Burma, Cambodia, 
Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, 
Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Philippines, the 
Russian Federation, Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, 
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, and Yemen except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Trust Funds.--Funds appropriated or otherwise made available in 
title III and under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' of this Act 
and prior Acts making funds available for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs that are made available for a 
trust fund held by an international financial institution shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations and such notification shall include the information 
specified under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (h) Other Program Notification Requirement.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act that are made available for the programs and activities 
enumerated under this section in the report accompanying this Act shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (i) Withholding of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
titles III and IV that are withheld from obligation or otherwise not 
programmed as a result of application of a provision of law in this or 
any other Act shall, if reprogrammed, be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (j) Requirement to Inform, Coordinate, and Consult.--
            (1) The Secretary of State shall promptly inform the 
        appropriate congressional committees of each instance in which 
        funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for Iraq, Libya, 
        Somalia, Syria, the Counterterrorism Partnership Fund, the 
        Relief and Recovery Fund, or programs to counter extremism and 
        foreign fighters abroad, have been diverted or destroyed, to 
        include the type and amount of assistance, a description of the 
        incident and parties involved, and an explanation of the 
        response of the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate: 
        Provided, That the Secretary shall ensure such funds are 
        coordinated with, and complement, the programs of other United 
        States Government departments and agencies and international 
        partners in such countries and on such activities.
            (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations at least 7 days prior to informing 
        a government of, or publically announcing a decision on, the 
        suspension of assistance to a country or a territory, including 
        as a result of an interagency review of such assistance, from 
        funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs.

                           document requests

    Sec. 7016.  None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be available to a 
nongovernmental organization, including any contractor, which fails to 
provide upon timely request any document, file, or record necessary to 
the auditing requirements of the Department of State and the United 
States Agency for International Development.

               use of funds in contravention of this act

    Sec. 7017.  If the President makes a determination not to comply 
with any provision of this Act on constitutional grounds, the head of 
the relevant Federal agency shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing within 5 days of such determination, the 
basis for such determination and any resulting changes to program and 
policy.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations.

                        allocations and reports

    Sec. 7019. (a) Allocation Tables.--Subject to subsection (b), funds 
appropriated by this Act under titles III through V shall be made 
available at not less than the amounts specifically designated in the 
respective tables included under such titles in the report accompanying 
this Act: Provided, That such designated amounts for foreign countries 
and international organizations shall serve as the amounts for such 
countries and international organizations transmitted to Congress in 
the report required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.
    (b) Authorized Deviations Below Minimum Levels.--Unless otherwise 
provided for by this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator 
of the United States Agency for International Development, as 
applicable, may deviate by not more than 5 percent below the minimum 
amounts specifically designated in the respective tables included under 
titles III through V in the report accompanying this Act.
    (c) Limitation.--For specifically designated amounts that are 
included, pursuant to subsection (a), in the report required by section 
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, deviations authorized by 
subsection (b) may only take place after submission of such report.
    (d) Exceptions.--
            (1) Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to funds for 
        which the initial period of availability has expired.
            (2) The authority in subsection (b) to deviate below 
        amounts designated in the respective tables included in the 
        report accompanying this Act shall not apply to the table 
        included under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' in such 
        report.
    (e) Reports.--The Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator, 
as appropriate, shall submit the reports required, in the manner 
described, in the report accompanying this Act.

               representation and entertainment expenses

    Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, agency, or 
entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and independent agencies funded in titles III or VI of this 
Act, shall take steps to ensure that domestic and overseas 
representation and entertainment expenses further official agency 
business and United States foreign policy interests, and--
            (1) are primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
        Executive Branch;
            (2) are principally for meals and events of a protocol 
        nature;
            (3) are not for employee-only events; and
            (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
        recreational character.
    (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the headings ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be obligated or 
expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
        fees at sporting events, theatrical and musical productions, 
        and amusement parks.

   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism

    Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
            (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
        otherwise made available under titles III through VI of this 
        Act may be made available to any foreign government which 
        provides lethal military equipment to a country the government 
        of which the Secretary of State has determined supports 
        international terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) of the 
        Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect 
        pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act: 
        Provided, That the prohibition under this section with respect 
        to a foreign government shall terminate 12 months after that 
        government ceases to provide such military equipment: Provided 
        further, That this section applies with respect to lethal 
        military equipment provided under a contract entered into after 
        October 1, 1997.
            (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
        or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if the 
        President determines that to do so is important to the national 
        interest of the United States.
            (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
        pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
        furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed explanation 
        of the assistance to be provided, the estimated dollar amount 
        of such assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance 
        furthers United States national interest.
    (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
        assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
        appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs, shall not be made available to any 
        foreign government which the President determines--
                    (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any 
                individual or group which has committed an act of 
                international terrorism;
                    (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
                    (C) is controlled by an organization designated as 
                a terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines that 
        national security or humanitarian reasons justify such waiver: 
        Provided, That the President shall publish each such waiver in 
        the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the waiver 
        takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
        accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

    Sec. 7022.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development Agency'', may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 7023.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this Act 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at the 
appropriations Act account level and shall include all appropriations 
and authorizations Acts funding directives, ceilings, and limitations 
with the exception that for the following accounts: ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall also be considered to include country, regional, and 
central program level funding within each such account; and for the 
development assistance accounts of the United States Agency for 
International Development, ``program, project, and activity'' shall 
also be considered to include central, country, regional, and program 
level funding, either as--
            (1) justified to Congress; or
            (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
        report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
        within 30 days after enactment of this Act, as required by 
        section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or as 
        modified pursuant to section 7019 of this Act.

 authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and united 
                 states african development foundation

    Sec. 7024.  Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs, shall not be construed to 
prohibit activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps 
Act, the Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
Foundation Act: Provided, That prior to conducting activities in a 
country for which assistance is prohibited, the agency shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations and report to such Committees 
within 15 days of taking such action.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

    Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds appropriated or 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for direct 
assistance and none of the funds otherwise made available to the 
Export-Import Bank and the United States International Development 
Finance Corporation shall be obligated or expended to finance any loan, 
any assistance, or any other financial commitments for establishing or 
expanding production of any commodity for export by any country other 
than the United States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on 
world markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is expected 
to become operative and if the assistance will cause substantial injury 
to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity: Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the 
Export-Import Bank if in the judgment of its Board of Directors the 
benefits to industry and employment in the United States are likely to 
outweigh the injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or 
competing commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That this subsection 
shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States;
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        United States producers;
            (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
            (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
        government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        under agreements which result in the generation of local 
        currencies of that country, the Administrator of the United 
        States Agency for International Development shall--
                    (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
                separate account established by that government;
                    (B) enter into an agreement with that government 
                which sets forth--
                            (i) the amount of the local currencies to 
                        be generated; and
                            (ii) the terms and conditions under which 
                        the currencies so deposited may be utilized, 
                        consistent with this section; and
                    (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
                responsibilities of USAID and that government to 
                monitor and account for deposits into and disbursements 
                from the separate account.
            (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
        the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
        separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
        amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
                    (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
                chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                            (i) project and sector assistance 
                        activities; or
                            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
                    (B) for the administrative requirements of the 
                United States Government.
            (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
        necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
        currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from the 
        separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are 
        used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2).
            (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
        of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
        chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as 
        the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
        remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
        (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to 
        by the government of that country and the United States 
        Government.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
        government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
        assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
        funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
        funds.
            (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
        may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law 
        which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
        including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
        Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
        accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
        1159).
            (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
        such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
        President shall submit a notification through the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
        which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
        proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
        of the United States interests that will be served by such 
        assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
        economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
        assistance).
            (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
        exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
11, and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, That before using the 
authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in support of 
programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular notification 
procedures, including a description of the program to be assisted, the 
assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such 
assistance: Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
or involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2020, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the Food 
for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.): Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of such Act 
and made available pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
        or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violates 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                           local competition

    Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition for Local 
Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available to 
the United States Agency for International Development may only be made 
available for limited competitions through local entities if the 
requirements contained under this section in the report accompanying 
this Act are met.
    (b) Extension of Procurement Authority.--Section 7077 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall 
continue in effect during fiscal year 2020.

                  international financial institutions

    Sec. 7029. (a) Safeguards.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States Executive Director of the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development 
Association to vote against any loan, grant, policy, or strategy if 
such institution has adopted and is implementing any social or 
environmental safeguard relevant to such loan, grant, policy, or 
strategy that provides less protection than World Bank safeguards in 
effect on September 30, 2015.
    (b) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under title V of 
this Act may be made as payment to any international financial 
institution while the United States executive director to such 
institution is compensated by the institution at a rate which, together 
with whatever compensation such executive director receives from the 
United States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while any alternate 
United States executive director to such institution is compensated by 
the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an 
individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States executive director of each international financial 
institution to promote human rights due diligence and risk management, 
as appropriate, in connection with any loan, grant, policy, or strategy 
of such institution in accordance with the criteria specified under 
this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (d) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to promote in loan, grant, and other financing 
agreements improvements in borrowing countries' financial management 
and judicial capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
corruption.

                           multi-year pledges

    Sec. 7030.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to make any pledge for future year funding for any multilateral or 
bilateral program funded in titles III through VI of this Act unless 
such pledge meets the requirements enumerated under this section in the 
report accompanying this Act.

              financial management and budget transparency

    Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-Government 
Assistance.--
            (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
        made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
        only if the conditions enumerated under this section in the 
        report accompanying this Act are fully met.
            (2) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development or the 
        Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any direct 
        government-to-government assistance if the Administrator or the 
        Secretary has credible information of material misuse of such 
        assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the national 
        interest of the United States to continue such assistance, 
        including a justification, or that such misuse has been 
        appropriately addressed.
            (3) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
        made available by this Act may be used by the government of any 
        foreign country for debt service payments owed by any country 
        to any international financial institution.
    (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
            (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
        Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen the 
        ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
        government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
        identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) Determination and report.--For each government 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
        not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall make 
        or update any determination of ``significant progress'' or ``no 
        significant progress'' in meeting the minimum requirements of 
        fiscal transparency, and make such determinations publicly 
        available in an annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' to be 
        posted on the Department of State website.
            (3) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III and 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in title IV of this 
        Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
        assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
        organizations in such countries that promote budget 
        transparency.
    (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
            (1) Ineligibility.--
                    (A) Officials of foreign governments and their 
                immediate family members about whom the Secretary of 
                State has credible information have been involved in 
                significant corruption, including corruption related to 
                the extraction of natural resources, or a gross 
                violation of human rights shall be ineligible for entry 
                into the United States.
                    (B) The Secretary shall also publicly or privately 
                designate or identify officials of foreign governments 
                and their immediate family members about whom the 
                Secretary has such credible information without regard 
                to whether the individual has applied for a visa.
            (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
        entry into the United States would further important United 
        States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the 
        United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
        Nations Headquarters Agreement: Provided, That nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United States 
        Government obligations under applicable international 
        agreements.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the waiver would 
        serve a compelling national interest or that the circumstances 
        which caused the individual to be ineligible have changed 
        sufficiently.
    (d) Foreign Assistance Website.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under titles I and II, and funds made available for any independent 
agency in title III, as appropriate, shall be made available to support 
the provision of additional information on United States Government 
foreign assistance on the Department of State foreign assistance 
website: Provided, That all Federal agencies funded under this Act 
shall provide such information on foreign assistance, upon request, to 
the Department of State.

                           democracy programs

    Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', not less than $2,400,000,000 shall be made available for 
democracy programs.
    (b) Authorities.--
            (1) Funds made available by this Act for democracy programs 
        pursuant to subsection (a) and under the heading ``National 
        Endowment for Democracy'' may be made available notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, and with regard to the National 
        Endowment for Democracy (NED), any regulation.
            (2) Funds made available by this Act for the NED are made 
        available pursuant to the authority of the National Endowment 
        for Democracy Act (title V of Public Law 98-164), including all 
        decisions regarding the selection of beneficiaries.
    (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of funds 
appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy programs'' means 
programs that support good governance, credible and competitive 
elections, freedom of expression, association, assembly, and religion, 
human rights, labor rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and 
that otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political parties, 
governments, nongovernmental organizations and institutions, and 
citizens to support the development of democratic states and 
institutions that are responsive and accountable to citizens.
    (d) Program Prioritization.--Funds made available pursuant to this 
section that are made available for programs to strengthen government 
institutions shall be prioritized for those institutions that 
demonstrate a commitment to democracy and the rule of law.
    (e) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the provision 
of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, the organizations 
implementing such assistance, the specific nature of that assistance, 
and the participants in such programs shall not be subject to the prior 
approval by the government of any foreign country.
    (f) Continuation of Current Practices.--The United States Agency 
for International Development shall continue to implement civil society 
and political competition and consensus building programs abroad with 
funds appropriated by this Act in a manner that recognizes the unique 
benefits of grants and cooperative agreements in implementing such 
programs.
    (g) Informing the National Endowment for Democracy.--The Assistant 
Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, 
and the Assistant Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and 
Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, shall regularly inform the National 
Endowment for Democracy of democracy programs that are planned and 
supported by funds made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs.
    (h) Protection of Civil Society Activists and Journalists.--Funds 
appropriated by this Act under title III shall be made available to 
support and protect civil society activists and journalists who have 
been threatened, harassed, or attacked, consistent with the action plan 
submitted pursuant to, and on the same terms and conditions of, section 
7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law 115-141).

                    international religious freedom

    Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and Special 
Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' shall be made available for 
the Office of International Religious Freedom, Bureau of Democracy, 
Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, and the Special Envoy to 
Promote Religious Freedom of Religious Minorities in the Near East and 
South Central Asia, as authorized in the Near East and South Central 
Asia Religious Freedom Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-161), including for 
support staff at not less than the amounts specified for such offices 
in the table under such heading in the report accompanying this Act.
    (b) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Democracy Fund'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``International 
Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made available for international 
religious freedom programs and funds appropriated by this Act under the 
headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
Refugee Assistance'' shall be made available for humanitarian 
assistance for vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities.
    (c) Authority.--Funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be 
made available notwithstanding any other provision of law for 
assistance for ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria.

                           special provisions

    Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and Displaced 
Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act that are 
made available for victims of war, displaced children, displaced 
Burmese, and to combat trafficking in persons and assist victims of 
such trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (b) Atrocities Prevention.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than $5,000,000 shall 
be made available for programs to prevent atrocities, including to 
implement recommendations of the Atrocities Prevention Board, or any 
successor entity.
    (c) World Food Programme.--Funds managed by the Bureau for 
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, or any successor 
humanitarian assistance bureau, of the United States Agency for 
International Development, from this or any other Act, may be made 
available as a general contribution to the World Food Programme, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (d) Directives and Authorities.--
            (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
        Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the Program for 
        Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the Independent 
        States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by the Soviet-
        Eastern European Research and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 
        4501 et seq.).
            (2) Additional authorities.--Of the amounts made available 
        by title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic 
        Programs'', up to $500,000 may be made available for grants 
        pursuant to section 504 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
        Act, Fiscal Year 1979 (22 U.S.C. 2656d), including to 
        facilitate collaboration with indigenous communities, and up to 
        $1,000,000 may be made available for grants to carry out the 
        activities of the Cultural Antiquities Task Force.
            (3) Innovation.--The USAID Administrator may use funds 
        appropriated by this Act under title III to make innovation 
        incentive awards: Provided, That each individual award may not 
        exceed $100,000: Provided further, That no more than 15 such 
        awards may be made during fiscal year 2020.
            (4) Exchange visitor program.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act may be used to modify the Exchange 
        Visitor Program administered by the Department of State to 
        implement the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
        1961, as amended, (Public Law 87-256; 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), 
        except through the formal rulemaking process pursuant to the 
        Administrative Procedure Act and notwithstanding the exceptions 
        to such rulemaking process in such Act: Provided, That funds 
        made available for such purpose shall only be made available 
        after consultation with, and subject to the regular 
        notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, 
        regarding how any proposed modification would affect the public 
        diplomacy goals of, and the estimated economic impact on, the 
        United States.
            (5) Private sector partnerships.--Of the funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for private 
        sector partnerships, up to $50,000,000 may remain available 
        until September 30, 2022: Provided, That funds made available 
        pursuant to this paragraph may only be made available following 
        prior consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (6) Vietnam education foundation.--Section 207(c) of the 
        Vietnam Education Foundation Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2763A-257; 
        22 U.S.C. 2452) is amended by adding a new paragraph as 
        follows:
            ``(4) On October 1, 2019, any remaining unobligated 
        balances of funds made available under the heading `Vietnam 
        Education Foundation--Vietnam Debt Repayment Fund' that are not 
        necessary for liquidating the final liabilities of the Vietnam 
        Education Foundation shall be available for grants authorized 
        by section 211 of this Act.''.
    (e) Partner Vetting.--Prior to initiating a partner vetting 
program, or making significant changes to the scope of an existing 
partner vetting program, the Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator, as appropriate, shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (f) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2020, the President may use 
up to $200,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (g) Transfer of Funds for Extraordinary Protection.--The Secretary 
of State may transfer to, and merge with, funds under the heading 
``Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials'' unobligated balances 
of expired funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' 
for fiscal year 2020, except for funds designated for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, at no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after 
the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the 
purposes for which appropriated: Provided, That not more than 
$50,000,000 may be transferred.
    (h) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic Missions 
and International Organizations.--Section 7034(k) of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during 
fiscal year 2020.
    (i) Extension of Authorities.--
            (1) Passport fees.--Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport Act of 
        June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
        substituting ``September 30, 2020'' for ``September 30, 2010''.
            (2) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
        in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through September 
        30, 2020.
            (3) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
        625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
        2020'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
            (4) Overseas pay comparability.--The authority provided by 
        section 1113 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through September 
        30, 2020: Provided, That the exercise of the authority of 
        section 1113 of such Act, as carried forward by this Act, shall 
        be subject to prior consultation with the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
            (5) Categorical eligibility.--The Foreign Operations, 
        Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 
        (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
                    (A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                            (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 
                        2019'' and inserting ``2019, and 2020''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking 
                        ``2019'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``2020''; and
                    (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in 
                subsection (b)(2), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
                ``2020''.
            (6) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
        provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in effect through 
        September 30, 2020.
            (7) Accountability review boards.--The authority provided 
        by section 301(a)(3) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
        Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831(a)(3)) shall remain 
        in effect for facilities in Afghanistan through September 30, 
        2020, except that the notification and reporting requirements 
        contained in such section shall include the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
            (8) Special inspector general for afghanistan 
        reconstruction competitive status.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, any employee of the Special Inspector General 
        for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) who completes at least 
        12 months of continuous service after the date of enactment of 
        this Act or who is employed on the date on which SIGAR 
        terminates, whichever occurs first, shall acquire competitive 
        status for appointment to any position in the competitive 
        service for which the employee possesses the required 
        qualifications.
            (9) Transfer of balances.--Section 7081(h) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2020.
            (10) Department of state inspector general waiver 
        authority.--The Inspector General of the Department of State 
        may waive the provisions of subsections (a) through (d) of 
        section 824 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064) 
        on a case-by-case basis for an annuitant reemployed by the 
        Inspector General on a temporary basis, subject to the same 
        constraints and in the same manner by which the Secretary of 
        State may exercise such waiver authority pursuant to subsection 
        (g) of such section.
    (j) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the HIV/AIDS 
Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 525(b)(1) of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-447) may be made available for 
pharmaceuticals and other products for other global health and child 
survival activities to the same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and 
other products, subject to the terms and conditions in such section: 
Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriation Act, 
2005 (Public Law 108-447) shall be exercised by the Assistant 
Administrator for Global Health, USAID, with respect to funds deposited 
for such non-HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (k) Loans, Consultation, and Notification.--
            (1) Loan guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
        and Central Asia'' by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs may be made available for the costs, as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
        of loan guarantees for Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, and Ukraine, 
        which are authorized to be provided: Provided, That amounts 
        made available under this paragraph for the costs of such 
        guarantees shall not be considered assistance for the purposes 
        of provisions of law limiting assistance to a country.
            (2) Designation requirement.--Funds made available pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) from prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        that were previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
        Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
        section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
        Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress for 
        Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
        pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.
            (3) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
        pursuant to the authorities of this subsection shall be subject 
        to prior consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and subject to the regular notification procedures 
        of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (l) Local Works.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for 
        Local Works pursuant to section 7080 of the Department of 
        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
        Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235), which may remain 
        available until September 30, 2024.
            (2) For the purposes of section 7080 of the Department of 
        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
        Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235), ``eligible 
        entities'' shall be defined as small local, international, and 
        United States-based nongovernmental organizations, educational 
        institutions, and other small entities that have received less 
        than a total of $5,000,000 from USAID over the previous 5 
        fiscal years: Provided, That departments or centers of such 
        educational institutions may be considered individually in 
        determining such eligibility.
    (m) Definitions.--
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--Unless otherwise 
        defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committees 
        on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
        Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this act and prior acts.--Unless 
        otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the 
        term ``funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs'' means funds that remain available for 
        obligation, and have not expired.
            (3) International financial institutions.--In this Act 
        ``international financial institutions'' means the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International 
        Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the 
        International Monetary Fund, the International Fund for 
        Agricultural Development, the Asian Development Fund, the 
        Inter-American Investment Corporation, the North American 
        Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development, the African Development Bank, the African 
        Development Fund, and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
        Agency.
            (4) Paris agreement.--In this Act, the term ``Paris 
        Agreement'' means the decision by the United Nations Framework 
        Convention on Climate Change's 21st Conference of Parties in 
        Paris, France, adopted December 12, 2015.
            (5) Southern kordofan reference.--Any reference to Southern 
        Kordofan in this or any other Act making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        shall for fiscal year 2020, and each fiscal year thereafter, be 
        deemed to include portions of Western Kordofan that were 
        previously part of Southern Kordofan prior to the 2013 division 
        of Southern Kordofan.
            (6) USAID.--In this Act, the term ``USAID'' means the 
        United States Agency for International Development.
            (7) Spend plan.--In this Act, the term ``spend plan'' means 
        a plan for the uses of funds appropriated for a particular 
        entity, country, program, purpose, or account and which shall 
        include, at a minimum, a description of--
                    (A) realistic and sustainable goals, criteria for 
                measuring progress, and a timeline for achieving such 
                goals;
                    (B) amounts and sources of funds by account;
                    (C) how such funds will complement other ongoing or 
                planned programs; and
                    (D) implementing partners, to the maximum extent 
                practicable.

                      law enforcement and security

    Sec. 7035. (a) Assistance.--
            (1) Community-based police assistance.--Funds made 
        available under titles III and IV of this Act to carry out the 
        provisions of chapter 1 of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of part 
        II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, 
        notwithstanding section 660 of that Act, to enhance the 
        effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority 
        through training and technical assistance in human rights, the 
        rule of law, anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through 
        assistance to foster civilian police roles that support 
        democratic governance, including assistance for programs to 
        prevent conflict, respond to disasters, address gender-based 
        violence, and foster improved police relations with the 
        communities they serve.
            (2) Counterterrorism partnerships fund.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
        Demining and Related Programs shall be made available for the 
        Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund for programs in areas 
        liberated from, under the influence of, or adversely affected 
        by, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or other terrorist 
        organizations: Provided, That such areas shall include the 
        Kurdistan Region of Iraq: Provided further, That prior to the 
        obligation of funds made available pursuant to this paragraph, 
        the Secretary of State shall take all practicable steps to 
        ensure that mechanisms are in place for monitoring, oversight, 
        and control of such funds: Provided further, That funds made 
        available pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with the appropriate congressional committees, and 
        the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
    (b) Authorities.--
            (1) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
        assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
        660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for a 
        nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean support 
        for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity 
        emerging from instability, as well as a nation emerging from 
        instability.
            (2) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
        Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of 
        Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 
        2020.
            (3) International prison conditions.-- Funds appropriated 
        by this Act shall be made available for assistance to eliminate 
        inhumane conditions in foreign prisons and other detention 
        facilities, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the Secretary of State 
        and the USAID Administrator shall consult with the Committees 
        on Appropriations on the proposed uses of such funds prior to 
        obligation and not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
        Act.
            (4) Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.--
                    (A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense 
                Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 
                1011) is amended by striking ``of this section'' and 
                all that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``of this section after September 30, 
                2021.''.
                    (B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance 
                Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by 
                striking ``and 2020'' and inserting ``2020, and 2021''.
            (5) Commercial leasing of defense articles.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms 
        Export Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, 
        Egypt, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and major 
        non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing (including 
        leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from 
        United States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense 
        Equipment (other than helicopters and other types of aircraft 
        having possible civilian application), if the President 
        determines that there are compelling foreign policy or national 
        security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
        commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale 
        under such Act.
            (6) Special defense acquisition fund.--Not to exceed 
        $900,000,000 may be obligated pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of 
        the Arms Export Control Act for the purposes of the Special 
        Defense Acquisition Fund (the Fund), to remain available for 
        obligation until September 30, 2022: Provided, That the 
        provision of defense articles and defense services to foreign 
        countries or international organizations from the Fund shall be 
        subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
    (c) Limitations.--
            (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
        not be used to support any military training or operations that 
        include child soldiers.
            (2) Landmines and cluster munitions.--
                    (A) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
                of law, demining equipment available to the United 
                States Agency for International Development and the 
                Department of State and used in support of the 
                clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for 
                humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on a grant 
                basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and 
                conditions as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
                    (B) Cluster munitions.--No military assistance 
                shall be furnished for cluster munitions, no defense 
                export license for cluster munitions may be issued, and 
                no cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
                shall be sold or transferred, unless--
                            (i) the submunitions of the cluster 
                        munitions, after arming, do not result in more 
                        than 1 percent unexploded ordnance across the 
                        range of intended operational environments, and 
                        the agreement applicable to the assistance, 
                        transfer, or sale of such cluster munitions or 
                        cluster munitions technology specifies that the 
                        cluster munitions will only be used against 
                        clearly defined military targets and will not 
                        be used where civilians are known to be present 
                        or in areas normally inhabited by civilians; or
                            (ii) such assistance, license, sale, or 
                        transfer is for the purpose of demilitarizing 
                        or permanently disposing of such cluster 
                        munitions.
            (3) Crowd control items.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        should not be used for tear gas, small arms, light weapons, 
        ammunition, or other items for crowd control purposes for 
        foreign security forces that use excessive force to repress 
        peaceful expression, association, or assembly in countries that 
        the Secretary of State determines are undemocratic or are 
        undergoing democratic transitions.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Security assistance report.--Not later than 120 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on funds 
        obligated and expended during fiscal year 2019, by country and 
        purpose of assistance, under the headings ``Peacekeeping 
        Operations'', ``International Military Education and 
        Training'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
            (2) Quarterly status report.--Following the submission of 
        the quarterly report required by section 36 of Public Law 90-
        629 (22 U.S.C. 2776), the Secretary of State, in coordination 
        with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the Committees 
        on Appropriations a status report that contains the information 
        described under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' in the report accompanying this Act.

                            enterprise funds

    Sec. 7036. (a) Notification.--None of the funds made available 
under titles III through VI of this Act may be made available for 
Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate congressional committees are 
notified at least 15 days in advance.
    (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution of any 
assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an 
Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.
    (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to and 
operation of any private equity fund or other parallel investment fund 
under an existing Enterprise Fund, the President shall submit such 
transition or operating plan to the appropriate congressional 
committees.

                          war crimes tribunals

    Sec. 7037.  If the President determines that doing so will 
contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other 
violations of international humanitarian law, the President may direct 
a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to 
deal with such violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination 
required under this section shall be in lieu of any determinations 
otherwise required under section 552(c): Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to this section shall be made available subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                         palestinian statehood

    Sec. 7038. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be provided to 
support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary of State determines 
and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
                    (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful 
                co-existence with the State of Israel; and
                    (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter 
                terrorism and terrorist financing in the West Bank and 
                Gaza, including the dismantling of terrorist 
                infrastructures, and is cooperating with appropriate 
                Israeli and other appropriate security organizations; 
                and
            (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
        new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
        region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
        lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
        enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
        within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
        should include--
                    (A) termination of all claims or states of 
                belligerency;
                    (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the 
                sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political 
                independence of every state in the area through 
                measures including the establishment of demilitarized 
                zones;
                    (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
                recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of 
                force;
                    (D) freedom of navigation through international 
                waterways in the area; and
                    (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of 
                the refugee problem.
            (3) the governing entity has enacted a constitution 
        assuring the rule of law, an independent judiciary, and respect 
        for human rights for its citizens, and should enact other laws 
        and regulations assuring transparent and accountable 
        governance.
    (b) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
President determines that it is important to the national security 
interest of the United States to do so.
    (c) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian Authority and 
affiliated institutions, or the governing entity, in order to help meet 
the requirements of subsection (a), consistent with the provisions of 
section 7039 of this Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the 
Palestinian Authority'').

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7039. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or 
expended with respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations that waiving such prohibition is important 
to the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to subsection 
(b) is exercised, the President shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations detailing the justification for the waiver, the 
purposes for which the funds will be spent, and the accounting 
procedures in place to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed: 
Provided, That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons and 
dismantle the terrorist infrastructure, and facilitate the settlement 
of terrorism-related claims of nationals of the United States.
    (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver authority 
under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must certify and report to 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds that 
the Palestinian Authority has established a single treasury account for 
all Palestinian Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow 
through this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside of 
the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a single 
comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and the Palestinian 
Authority is acting to counter incitement of violence against Israelis 
and is supporting activities aimed at promoting peace, coexistence, and 
security cooperation with Israel.
    (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be obligated for 
        salaries of personnel of the Palestinian Authority located in 
        Gaza or may be obligated or expended for assistance to Hamas or 
        any entity effectively controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing 
        government of which Hamas is a member, or that results from an 
        agreement with Hamas and over which Hamas exercises undue 
        influence.
            (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
        assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
        if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
        ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
        complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
        (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
            (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
        620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with respect to 
        this subsection.
            (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
        exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
        certification and every quarter thereafter on whether such 
        government, including all of its ministers or such equivalent 
        are continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
        section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as amended: Provided, That the report shall also detail 
        the amount, purposes and delivery mechanisms for any assistance 
        provided pursuant to the abovementioned certification and a 
        full accounting of any direct support of such government.
            (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
        VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
        Palestine Liberation Organization.
    (g) Suspension of Assistance.--
            (1) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' in this Act and made available for assistance for the 
        Palestinian Authority pursuant to subsection (b) shall be 
        suspended if after the date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) the Palestinians obtain the same standing as 
                member states or full membership as a state in the 
                United Nations or any specialized agency thereof 
                outside an agreement negotiated between Israel and the 
                Palestinians; or
                    (B) the Palestinians initiate an International 
                Criminal Court (ICC) judicially authorized 
                investigation, or actively support such an 
                investigation, that subjects Israeli nationals to an 
                investigation for alleged crimes against Palestinians.
            (2) The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection resulting from the application 
        of subparagraph (A) of such paragraph if the Secretary 
        certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so is 
        in the national security interest of the United States, and 
        submits a report to such Committees detailing how the waiver 
        and the continuation of assistance would assist in furthering 
        Middle East peace.
    (h) Reduction.--The Secretary of State shall reduce the amount of 
assistance made available by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
Support Fund'' for the Palestinian Authority by an amount the Secretary 
determines is equivalent to the amount expended by the Palestinian 
Authority, the Palestine Liberation Organization, and any successor or 
affiliated organizations with such entities as payments for acts of 
terrorism by individuals who are imprisoned after being fairly tried 
and convicted for acts of terrorism and by individuals who died 
committing acts of terrorism during the previous calendar year: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the amount reduced for fiscal year 2020 prior to the 
obligation of funds for the Palestinian Authority.
    (i) Incitement Report.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees detailing steps taken by the 
Palestinian Authority to counter incitement of violence against 
Israelis and to promote peace and coexistence with Israel.
    (j) Section 1003.--(1) The President may waive the provisions of 
section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if the President determines and 
certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the appropriate 
congressional committees that the Palestinians have not, after the date 
of enactment of this Act--
            (A) obtained in the United Nations or any specialized 
        agency thereof the same standing as member states or full 
        membership as a state outside an agreement negotiated between 
        Israel and the Palestinians; and
            (B) initiated or actively supported an ICC investigation 
        against Israeli nationals for alleged crimes against 
        Palestinians.
    (2) Not less than 90 days after the President is unable to make the 
certification pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the 
President may waive section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Palestinians have entered into 
direct and meaningful negotiations with Israel: Provided, That any 
waiver of the provisions of section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 under 
paragraph (1) of this subsection or under previous provisions of law 
must expire before the waiver under the preceding sentence may be 
exercised.
    (3) Any waiver pursuant to this subsection shall be effective for 
no more than a period of 6 months at a time and shall not apply beyond 
12 months after the enactment of this Act.
    (k) Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.--None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to 
provide equipment, technical support, consulting services, or any other 
form of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 7040. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2020, 30 days prior to 
the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations that procedures have been established to assure the 
Comptroller General of the United States will have access to 
appropriate United States financial information in order to review the 
uses of United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the 
West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate 
steps to ensure that such assistance is not provided to or through any 
individual, private or government entity, or educational institution 
that the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, plans, 
sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist activity nor, with 
respect to private entities or educational institutions, those that 
have as a principal officer of the entity's governing board or 
governing board of trustees any individual that has been determined to 
be involved in, or advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a 
member of a designated foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this subsection and 
shall terminate assistance to any individual, entity, or educational 
institution which the Secretary has determined to be involved in or 
advocating terrorist activity.
    (c) Prohibition.--
            (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
        assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
        available for--
                    (A) the purpose of recognizing or otherwise 
                honoring individuals who commit, or have committed acts 
                of terrorism; and
                    (B) any educational institution located in the West 
                Bank or Gaza that is named after an individual who the 
                Secretary of State determines has committed an act of 
                terrorism.
            (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
        made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, including 
        funds made available by transfer, may be made available for 
        obligation for security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza 
        until the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been established for 
        security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza and reports on 
        the extent of Palestinian compliance with such benchmarks.
    (d) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Economic assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
        of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank and 
        Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that the purpose of such assistance is to--
                    (A) advance Middle East peace;
                    (B) improve security in the region;
                    (C) continue support for transparent and 
                accountable government institutions;
                    (D) promote a private sector economy; or
                    (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
            (2) Security assistance.--The reporting requirements in 
        section 1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 
        (Public Law 110-252) shall apply to funds made available by 
        this Act, including a description of modifications, if any, to 
        the security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.
    (e) Private Sector Partnership Programs.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs may be made available 
for private sector partnership programs for the West Bank and Gaza if 
such funds are authorized: Provided, That funds made available pursuant 
to this subsection shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
appropriate congressional committees, and the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (f) Oversight by the United States Agency for International 
Development.--
            (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
        Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and significant 
        subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West Bank and Gaza 
        Program, are conducted at least on an annual basis to ensure, 
        among other things, compliance with this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, up to $1,000,000 
        may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
        States Agency for International Development for audits, 
        investigations, and other activities in furtherance of the 
        requirements of this subsection: Provided, That such funds are 
        in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes.
    (g) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--Subsequent to 
the certification specified in subsection (a), the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct an audit and an investigation of the 
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank 
and Gaza Program, including all funds provided as cash transfer 
assistance, in fiscal year 2020 under the heading ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and such audit shall address--
            (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
        requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
        activities carried out under such Program, including both 
        obligations and expenditures.
    (h) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this Act for 
West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      middle east and north africa

    Sec. 7041. (a) Arab League Boycott of Israel.--It is the sense of 
the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
        boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
        Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
        States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
        Africa;
            (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
        reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
        terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
        immediately disbanded;
            (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
        their neighbor Israel;
            (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
        continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of Israel 
        and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition by, for 
        example, taking into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the boycott when determining to sell 
        weapons to said country; and
            (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
        specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
        Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel to 
        bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
        Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
        partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
        businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
        businesses that do comply.
    (b) Egypt.--
            (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act that are available for assistance for Egypt may be made 
        available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        restricting assistance for Egypt, except for this subsection 
        and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and may 
        only be made available for assistance for the Government of 
        Egypt if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that such government is--
                    (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the 
                United States; and
                    (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-
                Israel Peace Treaty.
            (2) Economic support fund.--
                    (A) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
                ``Economic Support Fund'', up to $102,500,000 may be 
                made available for assistance for Egypt, of which not 
                less than $35,000,000 should be made available for 
                higher education programs including not less than 
                $15,000,000 for scholarships for Egyptian students with 
                high financial need to attend not-for-profit 
                institutions of higher education: Provided, That such 
                funds shall be made available for democracy programs, 
                and for development programs in the Sinai: Provided 
                further, That such funds may not be made available for 
                cash transfer assistance or budget support.
                    (B) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by 
                this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
                Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
                programs under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' 
                may be made available for a contribution, voluntary or 
                otherwise, to the ``Civil Associations and Foundations 
                Support Fund'', or any similar fund, established 
                pursuant to Law 70 on Associations and Other 
                Foundations Working in the Field of Civil Work 
                published in the Official Gazette of Egypt on May 29, 
                2017.
            (3) Foreign military financing program.--
                    (A) Certification.--Of the funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
                Program'', up to $1,300,000,000, to remain available 
                until September 30, 2021, may be made available for 
                assistance for Egypt: Provided, That such funds may be 
                transferred to an interest bearing account in the 
                Federal Reserve Bank of New York, following 
                consultation with the Committees on Appropriations: 
                Provided further, That 20 percent of such funds shall 
                be withheld from obligation until the Secretary of 
                State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that the Government of Egypt is taking, 
                on a sustained and effective basis, the steps 
                enumerated under this section in the report 
                accompanying this Act: Provided further, That the 
                certification requirement of this paragraph shall not 
                apply to funds appropriated by this Act under such 
                heading for counterterrorism, border security, and 
                nonproliferation programs for Egypt.
                    (B) Waiver.--(i) The Secretary of State may waive 
                the certification requirement in subparagraph (A) with 
                respect to 95 percent of the amount withheld from 
                obligation pursuant to such subparagraph if the 
                Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that to do so is important to the 
                national security interest of the United States, and 
                includes in such report a detailed justification for 
                the use of such waiver and the reasons why any of the 
                certification requirements of subparagraph (A) cannot 
                be met: Provided, That the report required by this 
                paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
                may be accompanied by a classified annex.
                            (ii) The remaining 5 percent may only be 
                        made available for obligation if the Secretary 
                        of State determines and reports to the 
                        Committees on Appropriations that the 
                        Government of Egypt has completed action to 
                        provide fair and commensurate compensation to 
                        American citizen April Corley for injuries 
                        suffered by Egyptian armed forces on September 
                        13, 2015: Provided, That none of the funds 
                        withheld pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be 
                        transferred to the interest bearing account 
                        referenced in subparagraph (A) until the 
                        determination in the preceding sentence has 
                        been provided to the Committees on 
                        Appropriations.
    (c) Iran.--
            (1) Funding.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Diplomatic Programs'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
        Programs'' shall be used by the Secretary of State to support 
        the activities described under this section in the report 
        accompanying this Act.
            (2) Reports.--
                    (A) Semi-annual report.--The Secretary of State 
                shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations the 
                semi-annual report required by section 135 of the 
                Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160e(d)(4)), as 
                added by section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review 
                Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-17).
                    (B) Sanctions report.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees a report on--
                            (i) the status of United States bilateral 
                        sanctions on Iran;
                            (ii) the reimposition and renewed 
                        enforcement of secondary sanctions; and
                            (iii) the impact such sanctions have had on 
                        Iran's destabilizing activities throughout the 
                        Middle East.
    (d) Iraq.--
            (1) Purposes.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
        of this Act shall be made available for assistance for Iraq for 
        economic, stabilization, and humanitarian programs described 
        under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
            (2) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
        used by the Government of the United States to enter into a 
        permanent basing rights agreement between the United States and 
        Iraq.
    (e) Jordan.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
and IV, not less than $1,525,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Jordan, of which not less than $745,100,000 of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be for 
budget support for the Government of Jordan and of which not less than 
$425,000,000 shall be made available under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program''.
    (f) Lebanon.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
available for assistance for Lebanon--
            (1) under the headings ``International Narcotics Control 
        and Law Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' may be made available for the Lebanese Internal 
        Security Forces (ISF) and the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) to 
        address security and stability requirements in areas affected 
        by the conflict in Syria, following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees;
            (2) under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' may be used only to professionalize the LAF and to 
        strengthen border security and combat terrorism, including 
        training and equipping the LAF to secure Lebanon's borders, 
        interdicting arms shipments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a 
        safe haven for terrorist groups, and to implement United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 1701: Provided, That funds 
        may not be obligated for assistance for the LAF until the 
        Secretary of State submits to the Committees on Appropriations 
        a spend plan, including actions to be taken to ensure equipment 
        provided to the LAF is only used for the intended purposes, 
        except such plan may not be considered as meeting the 
        notification requirements under section 7015 of this Act or 
        under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and 
        shall include any funds specifically intended for lethal 
        military equipment: Provided further, That such spend plan 
        shall be submitted not later than September 1, 2020;
            (3) shall not be made available for the ISF or the LAF if 
        these entities fall under control by a foreign terrorist 
        organization, as designated pursuant to section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); and
            (4) under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made 
        available notwithstanding section 1224 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 
        U.S.C. 2346 note).
    (g) Libya.--
            (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
        of this Act shall be made available for stabilization 
        assistance for Libya, including border security: Provided, That 
        the limitation on the uses of funds for certain infrastructure 
        projects in section 7041(f)(2) of the Department of State, 
        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
        2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76) shall apply to such 
        funds.
            (2) Certification.--Prior to the initial obligation of 
        funds made available by this Act for assistance for Libya, the 
        Secretary of State shall certify and report to the Committees 
        on Appropriations that all practicable steps have been taken to 
        ensure that mechanisms are in place for monitoring, oversight, 
        and control of such funds.
            (3) Cooperation on the september 2012 attack on united 
        states personnel and facilities.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act may be made available for assistance 
        for the central Government of Libya unless the Secretary of 
        State certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
        that such government is cooperating with United States 
        Government efforts to investigate and bring to justice those 
        responsible for the attack on United States personnel and 
        facilities in Benghazi, Libya in September 2012: Provided, That 
        the limitation in this paragraph shall not apply to funds made 
        available for the purpose of protecting United States 
        Government personnel or facilities.
    (h) Morocco.--
            (1) Availability and consultation requirement.--Funds 
        appropriated under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act shall be made available 
        for assistance for the Western Sahara: Provided, That not later 
        than 90 days after enactment of this Act and prior to the 
        obligation of such funds, the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the USAID Administrator, shall consult with 
        the Committees on Appropriations on the proposed uses of such 
        funds.
            (2) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' that are available for assistance for Morocco may 
        only be used for the purposes requested in the Congressional 
        Budget Justification, Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 2017.
    (i) Saudi Arabia.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
should be used to support the sale of nuclear technology to Saudi 
Arabia.
    (j) Syria.--
            (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International 
        Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Peacekeeping 
        Operations'' may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, for non-lethal stabilization assistance for 
        Syria, including for emergency medical and rescue response and 
        chemical weapons use investigations.
            (2) Limitations.--Funds made available pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection--
                    (A) may not be made available for a project or 
                activity that supports or otherwise legitimizes the 
                Government of Iran, the Government of the Russian 
                Federation, foreign terrorist organizations (as 
                designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)), or a proxy of 
                Iran in Syria; and
                    (B) should not be used in areas of Syria controlled 
                by a government led by Bashar al-Assad or associated 
                forces.
            (3) Monitoring and oversight.--Prior to the obligation of 
        any funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance inside 
        Syria.
            (4) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
        pursuant to this subsection may only be made available 
        following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (k) Tunisia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
this Act, not less than $191,400,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Tunisia.
    (l) Yemen.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available for stabilization 
assistance for Yemen.

                                 africa

    Sec. 7042. (a) African Great Lakes Region Assistance Restriction.--
Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``International 
Military Education and Training'' for the central government of a 
country in the African Great Lakes region may be made available only 
for Expanded International Military Education and Training and 
professional military education until the Secretary of State determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such government is 
not facilitating or otherwise participating in destabilizing activities 
in a neighboring country, including aiding and abetting armed groups.
    (b) Central African Republic.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
$3,000,000 shall be made available for a contribution to the Special 
Criminal Court in Central African Republic.
    (c) Malawi.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Development Assistance'', not less than $56,000,000 shall be 
made available for assistance for Malawi, of which up to $10,000,000 
shall be made available for higher education programs.
    (d) South Sudan.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
available for assistance for the central Government of South Sudan may 
only be made available, following consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations, for the purposes described under this section in the 
report accompanying this Act: Provided, That prior to the initial 
obligation of funds to support South Sudan peace negotiations or to 
implement a peace agreement, the Secretary of State shall consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations on the intended uses of such funds and 
steps taken by such government to advance or implement a peace 
agreement.
    (e) Sudan.--
            (1) Limitations.--
                    (A) Assistance.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, none of the funds appropriated by 
                this Act may be made available for assistance for the 
                Government of Sudan.
                    (B) Loans.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
                Act may be made available for the cost, as defined in 
                section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
                modifying loans and loan guarantees held by the 
                Government of Sudan, including the cost of selling, 
                reducing, or canceling amounts owed to the United 
                States, and modifying concessional loans, guarantees, 
                and credit agreements.
            (2) Exclusions.--The limitations of paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply to funds made available for assistance described under 
        this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (f) Zimbabwe.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
made available for assistance for the central Government of Zimbabwe, 
except for health and education, unless the Secretary of State 
certifies and reports that the rule of law and freedom of expression, 
association, and assembly are restored, except that funds may be made 
available for macroeconomic growth assistance if the Secretary reports 
to the Committees on Appropriations that such government is 
implementing transparent fiscal policies, including public disclosure 
of revenues from the extraction of natural resources.

                       east asia and the pacific

    Sec. 7043. (a) Burma.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--
                    (A) Authority.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
                ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Burma may 
                be made available notwithstanding any other provision 
                of law, except for this subsection, and following 
                consultation with the appropriate congressional 
                committees: Provided, That such funds may be made 
                available for ethnic groups and civil society in Burma 
                to help sustain ceasefire agreements and further 
                prospects for reconciliation and peace, which may 
                include support to representatives of ethnic armed 
                groups for this purpose.
                    (B) Limitations.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
                under titles III and IV to carry out the provisions of 
                part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and made 
                available for assistance for Burma shall be subject to 
                the limitations enumerated under this section in the 
                report accompanying this Act.
            (2) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
        Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Burma: Provided, That the Department of State may continue 
        consultations with the armed forces of Burma only on human 
        rights and disaster response in a manner consistent with the 
        prior fiscal year, and following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
    (b) Cambodia.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        that are made available for assistance for the Government of 
        Cambodia may be obligated or expended unless the Secretary of 
        State certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
        that such Government is meeting the conditions described under 
        this section in the report accompanying this Act.
            (2) Uses.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Development Assistance'' and made available for assistance 
        for Cambodia shall be made available for the purposes described 
        under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (c) Indo-Pacific Strategy.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, 
$160,000,000 shall be made available to support the implementation of 
the Indo-Pacific Strategy.
    (d) North Korea.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for assistance for the Government of 
        North Korea: Provided, That the Secretary of State may waive 
        the limitation in this paragraph, and the limitation on 
        assistance for North Korea contained in section 7007 of this 
        Act, if the Secretary determines and reports to the Committees 
        on Appropriations that to do so is important to the national 
        security interest of the United States, and submits in such 
        report a detailed justification.
            (2) Human rights.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Democracy Fund'' and ``Economic Support Fund'' shall 
        be made available for the promotion of human rights in North 
        Korea: Provided, That the authority of section 7032(b) of this 
        Act shall apply to such funds.
    (e) People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' in this 
        Act may be obligated or expended for processing licenses for 
        the export of satellites of United States origin (including 
        commercial satellites and satellite components) to the People's 
        Republic of China (PRC) unless, at least 15 days in advance, 
        the Committees on Appropriations are notified of such proposed 
        action.
            (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
        of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
        apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
        People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
        projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That none 
        of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant 
        to this Act may be used to finance any grant, contract, or 
        cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any entity that the 
        Secretary of State has reason to believe is owned or controlled 
        by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
    (f) Philippines.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' may 
be made available for counternarcotics assistance for the Philippines, 
except for drug demand reduction, maritime law enforcement, or 
transnational interdiction.
    (g) Tibet.--
            (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
        of each international financial institution to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support financing of projects 
        in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for the 
        migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet or 
        facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
        natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
        needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan people 
        and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are subject to 
        effective monitoring.
            (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--Of the funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not 
        less than:
                    (A) Tibet autonomous region.--$8,000,000 shall be 
                made available to nongovernmental organizations to 
                support activities which preserve cultural traditions 
                and promote sustainable development, education, and 
                environmental conservation in Tibetan communities in 
                the Tibet Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan 
                communities in China, notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law.
                    (B) India and nepal.--$6,000,000 shall be made 
                available for programs to promote and preserve Tibetan 
                culture, development, and the resilience of Tibetan 
                communities in India and Nepal, and to assist in the 
                education and development of the next generation of 
                Tibetan leaders from such communities: Provided, That 
                such funds are in addition to amounts made available in 
                subparagraph (A) for programs inside Tibet.
                    (C) Tibetan governance.--$3,000,000 shall be made 
                available for programs to strengthen the capacity of 
                Tibetan institutions and governance.
    (h) Vietnam.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' 
shall be made available for remediation of dioxin contaminated sites in 
Vietnam and may be made available for assistance for the Government of 
Vietnam, including the military, for such purposes.

                         south and central asia

    Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
            (1) Authorities.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
                through VI that are made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan may be made available--
                            (i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this 
                        Act or any similar provision of law and section 
                        660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
                            (ii) for reconciliation programs and 
                        disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration 
                        activities for former combatants who have 
                        renounced violence against the Government of 
                        Afghanistan, including in accordance with 
                        section 7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Department of 
                        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                        Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public 
                        Law 112-74); and
                            (iii) for an endowment to empower women and 
                        girls.
                    (B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of the Department of 
                State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-
                74) shall apply to funds appropriated by this Act for 
                assistance for Afghanistan.
            (2) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act may be used by the United States 
        Government to enter into a permanent basing rights agreement 
        between the United States and Afghanistan.
    (b) Pakistan.--
            (1) Authority and uses of funds.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
                for Pakistan may be made available notwithstanding any 
                other provision of law, except for section 620M of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
                for Pakistan that are made available for infrastructure 
                projects shall be implemented in a manner consistent 
                with section 507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
                2467(6)).
                    (C) The authorities and directives of section 
                7044(d)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign 
                Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
                2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) regarding 
                scholarships for women shall apply to funds 
                appropriated by this Act for assistance for Pakistan, 
                following consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations.
                    (D) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
                Related Programs'' that are made available for 
                assistance for Pakistan shall be made available to 
                interdict precursor materials from Pakistan to 
                Afghanistan that are used to manufacture improvised 
                explosive devices and for agriculture extension 
                programs that encourage alternative fertilizer use 
                among Pakistani farmers to decrease the dual use of 
                fertilizer in the manufacturing of improvised explosive 
                devices.
            (2) Withholding.--Of the funds appropriated under titles 
        III and IV of this Act that are made available for assistance 
        for Pakistan, $33,000,000 (increased by $33,000,000) shall be 
        withheld from obligation until the Secretary of State reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that Dr. Shakil Afridi has 
        been released from prison and cleared of all charges relating 
        to the assistance provided to the United States in locating 
        Osama bin Laden.
    (c) Sri Lanka.--
            (1) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
        assistance for the central Government of Sri Lanka, except for 
        funds made available for humanitarian assistance and victims of 
        trauma, may be made available only if the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        the Government of Sri Lanka is taking actions as described 
        under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
            (2) International security assistance.--Funds appropriated 
        under title IV of this Act that are available for assistance 
        for Sri Lanka shall be subject to the following conditions--
                    (A) not to exceed $500,000 under the heading 
                ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may only be made 
                available for programs to support counterterrorism, 
                humanitarian and disaster response preparedness, and 
                maritime security, including professionalization and 
                training for the navy and coast guard; and
                    (B) funds under the heading ``Peacekeeping 
                Operations'' may only be made available for training 
                and equipment related to international peacekeeping 
                operations and improvements to peacekeeping-related 
                facilities, and only if the Government of Sri Lanka is 
                taking effective steps to bring to justice Sri Lankan 
                peacekeeping troops who have engaged in sexual 
                exploitation and abuse.

                    latin america and the caribbean

    Sec. 7045. (a) Central America.--
    (1) Assistance.--
            (A) Fiscal year 2020.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under titles III and IV, not less than $540,850,000 shall 
        be made available for assistance for the countries of Central 
        America, including to implement the United States Strategy for 
        Engagement in Central America: Provided, That such assistance 
        shall be prioritized for programs and activities that addresses 
        the key factors that contribute to the migration of 
        unaccompanied, undocumented minors to the United States: 
        Provided further, That not less than $45,000,000 shall be for 
        support of Attorneys General and other activities to combat 
        corruption and impunity in such countries.
            (B) Prior fiscal years.--
                    (i) Section 7045(a) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) is amended 
                by striking in paragraph (2), ``$655,000,000 should'' 
                and inserting in lieu thereof, ``not less than 
                $655,000,000 shall''.
                    (ii) Section 7045(a) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law 115-141) is amended 
                by striking in paragraph (1), ``up to $615,000,000 
                may'' and inserting in lieu thereof, ``not less than 
                $615,000,000 shall''.
                    (iii) Section 7045(a) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2019 (division F of Public Law 116-6) is amended--
                            (I) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), 
                        (3), and (4) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and 
                        (5), respectively;
                            (II) by inserting before paragraph (2), as 
                        redesignated, the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated under titles 
        III and IV of this Act, not less than $527,600,000 shall be 
        made available for assistance for the countries of Central 
        America to implement the United States Strategy for Engagement 
        in Central America.'';
                            (III) in paragraph (3), as redesignated, by 
                        striking ``paragraph (1)'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``paragraph (2)''; and
                            (IV) in paragraph (4) as redesignated--
                                    (aa) by striking ``subsection 
                                (a)(1)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                                (2)''; and
                                    (bb) by striking ``subsection 
                                (a)(2)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                                (3)''.
    (2) Northern Triangle.--
            (A) Assistance to the central governments.--Of funds made 
        available pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) under title IV of this 
        Act that are made available for assistance for each of the 
        central governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, 50 
        percent may only be obligated after the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional 
        committees that such government is meeting the requirements 
        enumerated under this section in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
            (B) Reprogramming.--If the Secretary is unable to make the 
        certification required by subparagraph (A) for one or more of 
        the governments, such assistance for such central government 
        shall be reprogrammed for assistance for other countries in 
        Latin America and the Caribbean, notwithstanding the minimum 
        funding requirements of this subsection and of section 7019 of 
        this Act: Provided, That any such reprogramming shall be 
        subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (C) Exceptions.--The limitation of subparagraph (A) shall 
        not apply to funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
        available for--
                    (i) the International Commission against Impunity 
                in Guatemala, the Mission to Support the Fight Against 
                Corruption and Impunity in Honduras, assistance for 
                support of Attorneys General, and other activities to 
                combat corruption and impunity;
                    (ii) programs to combat gender-based violence;
                    (iii) humanitarian assistance; and
                    (iv) global food security programs.
    (b) Colombia.--
            (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under titles III and IV, not less than $457,253,000 shall be 
        made available for assistance for Colombia: Provided, That such 
        funds shall be made available for the programs and activities 
        described under this section in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
            (2) Withholding of funds.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' and made 
                available for assistance for Colombia, 20 percent may 
                be obligated only after the Secretary of State submits 
                to the Committees on Appropriation the certification 
                and report regarding such funds described under this 
                section in the report accompanying this Act.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' and made available for assistance for 
                Colombia, 20 percent may be obligated only after the 
                Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
                Colombia has reduced overall illicit drug cultivation 
                and trafficking.
            (3) Authority.--Aircraft supported by funds appropriated by 
        this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        and made available for assistance for Colombia may be used to 
        transport personnel and supplies involved in drug eradication 
        and interdiction, including security for such activities, and 
        to provide transport in support of alternative development 
        programs and investigations by civilian judicial authorities.
    (c) Haiti.--
            (1) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
        the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available 
        for assistance for Haiti may not be made available for 
        assistance for the central Government of Haiti unless the 
        Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is taking the steps 
        described under this section in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
            (2) Haitian coast guard.--The Government of Haiti shall be 
        eligible to purchase defense articles and services under the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the Coast 
        Guard.
    (d) The Caribbean.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
title IV, not less than $58,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) shall be 
made available for the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative.
    (e) Venezuela.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $17,500,000 (increased 
by $3,000,000) shall be made available for programs to promote 
democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela.

                           europe and eurasia

    Sec. 7046. (a) Violations of Sovereignty.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be made available for assistance for a 
government of an Independent State of the former Soviet Union if such 
government directs any action in violation of the territorial integrity 
or national sovereignty of any other Independent State of the former 
Soviet Union, such as those violations included in the Helsinki Final 
Act: Provided, That except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(1) 
of this section, funds may be made available without regard to the 
restriction in this subsection if the President determines that to do 
so is in the national security interest of the United States: Provided 
further, That prior to executing the authority contained in the 
previous proviso, the Secretary of State shall consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations on how such assistance supports the 
national security interest of the United States.
    (b) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of the 
FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5812 note) shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5851 et seq.) and 
        section 1424 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction 
        Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation assistance;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
        or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the United States International 
        Development Finance Corporation as authorized by the BUILD Act 
        of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-254);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945 (Public Law 79-173); or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.
    (c) Countering Russian Influence and Aggression.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for assistance for the central Government 
        of the Russian Federation.
            (2) Annexation of crimea.--
                    (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
                be made available for assistance for the central 
                government of a country that the Secretary of State 
                determines and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations has taken affirmative steps intended to 
                support or be supportive of the Russian Federation 
                annexation of Crimea or other territory in Ukraine: 
                Provided, That except as otherwise provided in 
                subsection (a), the Secretary may waive the restriction 
                on assistance required by this subparagraph if the 
                Secretary determines and reports to such Committees 
                that to do so is in the national interest of the United 
                States, and includes a justification for such interest.
                    (B) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
                be made available for--
                            (i) the implementation of any action or 
                        policy that recognizes the sovereignty of the 
                        Russian Federation over Crimea or other 
                        territory in Ukraine;
                            (ii) the facilitation, financing, or 
                        guarantee of United States Government 
                        investments in Crimea or other territory in 
                        Ukraine under the control of Russian-backed 
                        separatists, if such activity includes the 
                        participation of Russian Government officials, 
                        or other Russian owned or controlled financial 
                        entities; or
                            (iii) assistance for Crimea or other 
                        territory in Ukraine under the control of 
                        Russian-backed separatists, if such assistance 
                        includes the participation of Russian 
                        Government officials, or other Russian owned or 
                        controlled financial entities.
                    (C) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
                the United States executive directors of each 
                international financial institution to vote against any 
                assistance by such institution (including any loan, 
                credit, or guarantee) for any program that violates the 
                sovereignty or territorial integrity of Ukraine.
                    (D) The requirements and limitations of this 
                subsection shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary 
                of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that the Government of Ukraine has 
                reestablished sovereignty over Crimea and other 
                territory in Ukraine under the control of Russian-
                backed separatists.
    (3) Occupation of the Georgian Territories of Abkhazia and 
Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.--
            (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the central government of a 
        country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations has recognized the 
        independence of, or has established diplomatic relations with, 
        the Russian occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia and 
        Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia: Provided, That the Secretary 
        shall publish on the Department of State website a list of any 
        such central governments in a timely manner: Provided further, 
        That the Secretary may waive the restriction on assistance 
        required by this subparagraph if the Secretary determines and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so is in 
        the national interest of the United States, and includes a 
        justification for such interest.
            (B) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available to support the Russian occupation of the Georgian 
        territories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.
            (C) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any assistance by such institution 
        (including any loan, credit, or guarantee) for any program that 
        violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia.
    (4) Countering Russian Influence Fund.--
            (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
        and IV, not less than $280,000,000 shall be made available to 
        carry out the purposes of the Countering Russian Influence 
        Fund, as authorized by section 254 of the Countering Russian 
        Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-44; 
        22 U.S.C. 9543) and notwithstanding the country limitation in 
        subsection (b) of such section, and programs to enhance the 
        capacity of law enforcement and security forces in countries in 
        Europe and Eurasia and strengthen security cooperation between 
        such countries and the United States and the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization, as appropriate.
            (B) Funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for the Eastern Partnership countries shall be made 
        available to advance the implementation of Association 
        Agreements and trade agreements with the European Union, and to 
        reduce their vulnerability to external economic and political 
        pressure from the Russian Federation.
    (5) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
made available to support democracy programs, as defined in section 
7032(c) of this Act, in the Russian Federation, countries along the 
Russian periphery, and other countries in Europe and Eurasia targeted 
by, or potentially vulnerable to, the malign influence campaigns of the 
Russian Federation: Provided, That not later than 90 days after the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a multi-
year strategy for such programs in the manner described under this 
section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (d) Turkey.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs, may be 
made available to transfer or deliver, or to facilitate the transfer or 
delivery of, F-35 aircraft to Turkey, including any defense articles or 
services related to such aircraft, until the Secretary of State 
certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the 
Government of Turkey is not purchasing the S-400 missile defense system 
from Russia and will not accept the delivery of such system.

  stabilization and development in regions impacted by extremism and 
                                conflict

    Sec. 7047. (a) Countering Foreign Fighters and Extremist 
Organizations.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act 
shall be made available for programs and activities to counter and 
defeat violent extremism and foreign fighters abroad.
    (b) Relief and Recovery Fund.--
            (1) Funds and transfer authority.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
        Related Programs'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', and ``Foreign 
        Military Financing Program'', not less than $195,000,000 shall 
        be made available for the Relief and Recovery Fund for 
        assistance for areas liberated or at risk from, or under the 
        control of, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, other 
        terrorist organizations, or violent extremist organizations, 
        including for stabilization assistance for vulnerable ethnic 
        and religious minority communities affected by conflict: 
        Provided, That such funds are in addition to amounts otherwise 
        made available for such purposes and to amounts specifically 
        designated in this Act or in the report accompanying this Act 
        for assistance for countries: Provided further, That such funds 
        appropriated under such headings may be transferred to, and 
        merged with, funds appropriated under such headings: Provided 
        further, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
        other transfer authority provided by this Act or any other Act, 
        and is subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Transitional justice.--Of the funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``International Narcotics Control 
        and Law Enforcement'' that are made available for the Relief 
        and Recovery Fund, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
        available for programs to promote accountability in Iraq and 
        Syria for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, 
        which shall be in addition to any other funds made available by 
        this Act for such purposes: Provided, That such programs shall 
        include components to develop local investigative and judicial 
        skills, and to collect and preserve evidence and maintain the 
        chain of custody of evidence, including for use in 
        prosecutions: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
        administered by the Special Coordinator for the Office of 
        Global Criminal Justice, Department of State: Provided further, 
        That funds made available by this paragraph shall only be made 
        available on an open and competitive basis.
    (d) Fragile States and Extremism.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available for the purposes of section 7080 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31), subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                             united nations

    Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
            (1) Restrictions.--Of the funds appropriated under title I 
        and under the heading ``International Organizations and 
        Programs'' in title V of this Act that are available for 
        contributions to the United Nations (including the Department 
        of Peacekeeping Operations), any United Nations agency, or the 
        Organization of American States, 15 percent may not be 
        obligated for such organization, department, or agency until 
        the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
        on Appropriations that the organization, department, or agency 
        is meeting the transparency and accountability requirements 
        detailed in the report accompanying this Act.
            (2) Waiver.--The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the 
        Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or 
        respond to a humanitarian crisis.
    (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and Organizations.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds made available by this 
        Act may be used to pay expenses for any United States 
        delegation to any specialized agency, body, or commission of 
        the United Nations or may be made available as a contribution 
        to any organization, agency, commission, or program within the 
        United Nations system if such agency, body, commission, 
        program, or organization is chaired or presided over by a 
        country, the government of which the Secretary of State has 
        determined for purposes of section 620A of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of the Arms Export Control 
        Act, section 6(j)(1) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 
        as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. App. 24 2405(j)(1)), or any 
        other provision of law is a government that has repeatedly 
        provided support for acts of international terrorism.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
        restriction in this subsection if the Secretary determines and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so is 
        important to the national interest of the United States, 
        including a description of the national interest served.
    (c) United Nations Human Rights Council.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act shall be made available in support of the United Nations Human 
Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that participation in the Council does 
not serve the national interest of the United States and that the 
Council is not taking significant steps to remove Israel as a permanent 
agenda item nor taking actions to ensure integrity in the election of 
members to such Council: Provided, That such report shall include a 
description of how the national interest is better served by our 
withdrawal from the Council: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
State shall report to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 
September 30, 2020, on the resolutions considered in the United Nations 
Human Rights Council during the previous 12 months, and on steps taken 
to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item and ensure integrity in the 
election of members to such Council.
    (d) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act under title III shall be made available to the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), unless the Secretary of State 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that UNRWA--
            (1) inappropriately utilizes Operations Support Officers in 
        the West Bank, Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect 
        UNRWA installations;
            (2) is not promptly acting to address any staff or 
        beneficiary violation of its own policies (including the 
        policies on neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the 
        legal requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961;
            (3) is not implementing procedures to maintain the 
        neutrality of its facilities, including implementing a no-
        weapons policy, and conducting regular inspections of its 
        installations, to ensure they are only used for humanitarian or 
        other appropriate purposes;
            (4) is not taking necessary and appropriate measures to 
        ensure it is operating in compliance with the conditions of 
        section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
        continuing regular reporting to the Department of State on 
        actions it has taken to ensure conformance with such 
        conditions;
            (5) is not taking steps to ensure the content of all 
        educational materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered 
        schools and summer camps is consistent with the values of human 
        rights, dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
            (6) is engaging in operations with financial institutions 
        or related entities in violation of relevant United States law, 
        and is not taking steps to improve the financial transparency 
        of the organization; and
            (7) is not in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
        Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is not implementing 
        in a timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the amount of funds available for obligation 
or expenditure in fiscal year 2020 for contributions to any 
organization, department, agency, or program within the United Nations 
system or any international program that are withheld from obligation 
or expenditure due to any provision of law: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall update such report each time additional funds are 
withheld by operation of any provision of law: Provided further, That 
the reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in such report, 
including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (f) Sexual Exploitation and Abuse in Peacekeeping Operations.--The 
Secretary of State should withhold assistance to any unit of the 
security forces of a foreign country if the Secretary has credible 
information that such unit has engaged in sexual exploitation or abuse, 
including while serving in a United Nations peacekeeping operation, 
until the Secretary determines that the government of such country is 
taking effective steps to hold the responsible members of such unit 
accountable and to prevent future incidents: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall promptly notify the government of each country subject 
to any withholding of assistance pursuant to this subsection, and shall 
notify the appropriate congressional committees of such withholding not 
later than 10 days after a determination to withhold such assistance is 
made: Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, assist such government in bringing the responsible members 
of such unit to justice.
    (g) Additional Availability.--Subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated by 
this Act which are returned or not made available due to the 
implementation of subsection (a), the second proviso under the heading 
``Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities'' in title I 
of this Act, or section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
(22 U.S.C. 2227(a)), shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That the requirement to withhold funds 
for programs in Burma under section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    (h) Prior Year Peacekeeping Assessments.--Section 404(b)(2)(B) of 
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, 
(22 U.S.C. 287e note) is amended at the end by adding the following:
                            ``(vii) For assessments made during 
                        calendar year 2016, 28.5738 percent.
                            ``(viii) For assessments made during 
                        calendar year 2017, 28.4691 percent.
                            ``(ix) For assessments made during calendar 
                        year 2018, 28.4344 percent.''.

                           inspectors general

    Sec. 7049. (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be used to deny an Inspector General 
funded under this Act timely access to any records, documents, or other 
materials available to the department or agency of the United States 
Government over which such Inspector General has responsibilities under 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or 
impede the access of such Inspector General to such records, documents, 
or other materials, under any provision of law, except a provision of 
law that expressly refers to such Inspector General and expressly 
limits the right of access of such Inspector General.
    (b) Report.--Each Inspector General covered by this section shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations within 5 calendar days of 
any failure by any department or agency of the United States Government 
to provide its Inspector General access to all requested records, 
documents, and other materials.

                        global internet freedom

    Sec. 7050. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2020 under the headings ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', not less than 
$60,500,000 shall be made available for programs to promote Internet 
freedom globally.
    (b) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among the 
relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned activities, 
but not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States Agency 
for Global Media shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations spend 
plans for funds made available by this Act for programs to promote 
Internet freedom globally, which shall include a description of 
safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure that such 
programs are not used for illicit purposes.
    (c) Security Audits.--Funds made available pursuant to this section 
to promote Internet freedom globally may only be made available to 
support technologies that undergo comprehensive security audits 
conducted by the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
Department of State to ensure that such technology is secure and has 
not been compromised in a manner detrimental to the interest of the 
United States or to individuals and organizations benefiting from 
programs supported by such funds.

 torture and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment

    Sec. 7051. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used to support or justify the use of torture and other 
cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by any official or 
contract employee of the United States Government.
    (b) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this 
Act shall be made available, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 and following consultation with the Committees 
on Appropriations, for assistance to eliminate torture and other cruel, 
inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by foreign police, 
military or other security forces in countries receiving assistance 
from funds appropriated by this Act.

                aircraft transfer, coordination, and use

    Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with funds 
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the 
headings ``Diplomatic Programs'', ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug Initiative'', and ``Andean 
Counterdrug Programs'' may be used for any other program and in any 
region.
    (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in subsection (a) 
shall apply only after the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the equipment is no longer 
required to meet programmatic purposes in the designated country or 
region: Provided, That any such transfer shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
            (1) Authority.--The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by 
        the Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development with funds made available in this Act 
        or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
        coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
        Mission: Provided, That notwithstanding section 7006(b) of this 
        Act, such aircraft may be used to transport, on a reimbursable 
        or non-reimbursable basis, Federal and non-Federal personnel 
        supporting Department of State and USAID programs and 
        activities: Provided further, That official travel for other 
        agencies for other purposes may be supported on a reimbursable 
        basis, or without reimbursement when traveling on a space 
        available basis: Provided further, That funds received by the 
        Department of State in connection with the use of aircraft 
        owned, leased, or chartered by the Department of State may be 
        credited to the Working Capital Fund of the Department and 
        shall be available for expenses related to the purchase, lease, 
        maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
            (2) Scope.--The requirement and authorities of this 
        subsection shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose of 
        which is the transportation of personnel.
    (d) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, including fuel, 
of aircraft funded by this Act shall be borne by the recipient country.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

    Sec. 7053.  The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) shall apply 
to this Act: Provided, That the date ``September 30, 2009'' in 
subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be deemed to be ``September 
30, 2019''.

                      international monetary fund

    Sec. 7054.  The terms and conditions of sections 7086(b) (1) and 
(2) and 7090(a) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 
111-117) shall apply to this Act.

                              extradition

    Sec. 7055. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be used to provide assistance (other than funds provided under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``Complex Crises 
Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', ``United States Emergency Refugee 
and Migration Assistance Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
terrorism, Demining and Related Assistance'') for the central 
government of a country which has notified the Department of State of 
its refusal to extradite to the United States any individual indicted 
for a criminal offense for which the maximum penalty is life 
imprisonment without the possibility of parole or for killing a law 
enforcement officer, as specified in a United States extradition 
request.
    (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the central 
government of a country with which the United States maintains 
diplomatic relations and with which the United States has an 
extradition treaty and the government of that country is in violation 
of the terms and conditions of the treaty.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies to 
the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver is important to the 
national interest of the United States.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 7056.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act may be obligated or 
expended to provide--
            (1) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (2) assistance for any program, project, or activity that 
        contributes to the violation of internationally recognized 
        workers' rights, as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act 
        of 1974, of workers in the recipient country, including any 
        designated zone or area in that country: Provided, That the 
        application of section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should be 
        commensurate with the level of development of the recipient 
        country and sector, and shall not preclude assistance for the 
        informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture; or
            (3) any assistance to an entity outside the United States 
        if such assistance is for the purpose of directly relocating or 
        transferring jobs from the United States to other countries and 
        adversely impacts the labor force in the United States.

                     united nations population fund

    Sec. 7057. (a) Contribution.--Of the funds made available under the 
heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' in this Act for 
fiscal year 2020, $55,500,000 shall be made available for the United 
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
UNFPA, that are not made available for UNFPA because of the operation 
of any provision of law, shall be transferred to the ``Global Health 
Programs'' account and shall be made available for family planning, 
maternal, and reproductive health activities, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Prohibition on Use of Funds in China.--None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used by UNFPA for a country program in the 
People's Republic of China.
    (d) Conditions on Availability of Funds.--Funds made available by 
this Act for UNFPA may not be made available unless--
            (1) UNFPA maintains funds made available by this Act in an 
        account separate from other accounts of UNFPA and does not 
        commingle such funds with other sums; and
            (2) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
    (e) Report to Congress and Dollar-for-Dollar Withholding of 
Funds.--
            (1) Not later than 4 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations indicating the amount of funds 
        that UNFPA is budgeting for the year in which the report is 
        submitted for a country program in the People's Republic of 
        China.
            (2) If a report under paragraph (1) indicates that UNFPA 
        plans to spend funds for a country program in the People's 
        Republic of China in the year covered by the report, then the 
        amount of such funds UNFPA plans to spend in the People's 
        Republic of China shall be deducted from the funds made 
        available to UNFPA after March 1 for obligation for the 
        remainder of the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.

                        global health activities

    Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
of this Act that are made available for global health programs, 
including activities relating to research on, and the prevention, 
treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS, may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law except for provisions under 
the heading ``Global Health Programs'' and the United States Leadership 
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 
22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' in this Act, 
not less than $750,000,000 shall be made available for family planning/
reproductive health, including in areas where population growth 
threatens biodiversity or endangered species: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs shall be made available to implement the Presidential 
Memorandum on Mexico City Policy dated January 23, 2017: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of the conditions of section 7018 of this Act and 
section 104(f)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (b) Contagious Infectious Disease Outbreaks.--
            (1)  Extraordinary measures.--If the Secretary of State 
        determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        an international infectious disease outbreak is sustained, 
        severe, and is spreading internationally, or that it is in the 
        national interest to respond to a Public Health Emergency of 
        International Concern, funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
        Assistance'', ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``Complex 
        Crises Fund'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
        ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and ``Millennium 
        Challenge Corporation'' may be made available to combat such 
        infectious disease or public health emergency, and may be 
        transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated under such 
        headings for the purposes of this paragraph.
            (2) Emergency reserve fund.--Up to $10,000,000 of the funds 
        made available under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' may 
        be made available for the Emergency Reserve Fund established 
        pursuant to section 7058(c)(1) of the Department of State, 
        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
        2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31): Provided, That such 
        funds shall be made available under the same terms and 
        conditions of such section.
            (3) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available by 
        this subsection shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees, and the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                            gender equality

    Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available to promote gender equality in United States 
Government diplomatic and development efforts by raising the status, 
increasing the participation, and protecting the rights of women and 
girls worldwide.
    (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title III of 
this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for 
programs specifically designed to increase leadership opportunities for 
women in countries where women and girls suffer discrimination due to 
law, policy, or practice, by strengthening protections for women's 
political status, expanding women's participation in political parties 
and elections, and increasing women's opportunities for leadership 
positions in the public and private sectors at the local, provincial, 
and national levels.
    (c) Gender-Based Violence.--Of the funds appropriated under titles 
III and IV of this Act, not less than $165,000,000 shall be made 
available to implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
gender-based violence in countries where it is common in conflict and 
non-conflict settings.
    (d) Women and Girls at Risk From Extremism.--Of the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'', 
not less than $15,000,000 shall be made available to support women and 
girls who are at risk from extremism and conflict, and for the 
activities described in section 7059(e)(1) of the Department of State, 
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 
(division K of Public Law 115-141): Provided, That such funds are in 
addition to amounts otherwise made available by this Act for such 
purposes, and shall be made available following consultation with, and 
the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                           sector allocations

    Sec. 7060. (a) Basic Education and Higher Education.--
            (1) Basic education.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, not less than $925,000,000 shall be made 
                available for assistance for basic education, and such 
                funds may be made available notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
                countries: Provided, That funds made available under 
                the headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic 
                Support Fund'' for the support of non-state schools in 
                this Act and prior Acts shall be subject to the regular 
                notification procedures of the Committees on 
                Appropriations.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act for assistance for basic education programs, 
                not less than $125,000,000 shall be made available for 
                contributions to multilateral partnerships that support 
                education.
            (2) Higher education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
        III of this Act, not less than $235,000,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for higher education: Provided, That 
        such funds may be made available notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
        countries, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Environment Programs.--
            (1) Authority, notification, and limitation.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
                provisions of sections 103 through 106, and chapter 4 
                of part II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may 
                be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                except for the provisions of this subsection, to 
                support environment programs.
                    (B) Funds made available pursuant to this 
                subsection shall be subject to the regular notification 
                procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
                    (C) Funds in this Act and prior Acts may be made 
                available for a contribution, grant, or any other 
                payment for the Paris Agreement: Provided, That any 
                such use of funds shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with, and the regular notification 
                procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
                    (D) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
                made available by this Act, or prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs, may be used to 
                provide formal notification under Article 28 of the 
                Paris Agreement of the withdrawal of the United States 
                from such Agreement.
            (2) Conservation programs.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, not less than $295,000,000 shall be made 
                available for biodiversity conservation programs.
                    (B) Not less than $100,664,000 (increased by 
                $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) of the funds 
                appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act shall 
                be made available to combat the transnational threat of 
                wildlife poaching and trafficking.
            (3) Sustainable landscapes.--Of the funds appropriated 
        under title III of this Act, not less than $135,000,000 shall 
        be made available for sustainable landscapes programs.
            (4) Adaptation.--Of the funds appropriated under title III 
        of this Act, not less than $177,000,000 shall be made available 
        for adaptation programs.
            (5) Renewable energy.--Of the funds appropriated under 
        title III of this Act, not less than $179,000,000 shall be made 
        available for renewable energy programs.
    (c) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--Of the funds 
appropriated by title III of this Act, not less than $1,005,600,000 
shall be made available for food security and agricultural development 
programs to carry out the purposes of the Global Food Security Act of 
2016 (Public Law 114-195): Provided, That funds may be made available 
for a contribution as authorized by section 3202 of the Food, 
Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246), as amended 
by section 3310 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 
115-334).
    (d) Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized Enterprises.--Of the funds 
appropriated by this Act, not less than $265,000,000 shall be made 
available to support the development of, and access to financing for, 
micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises that benefit the poor, 
especially women.
    (e) Programs To Combat Trafficking in Persons.--Of the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', 
``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
Asia'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
not less than $67,000,000 shall be made available for activities to 
combat trafficking in persons internationally.
    (f) Reconciliation Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``Development Assistance'' shall be made available to 
support people-to-people reconciliation programs which bring together 
individuals of different ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds 
from areas of civil strife and war: Provided, That the USAID 
Administrator shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, 
prior to the initial obligation of funds, on the uses of such funds, 
and such funds shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Water and Sanitation.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, 
not less than $435,000,000 shall be made available for water supply and 
sanitation projects pursuant to section 136 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, of which not less than $195,000,000 shall be for programs 
in sub-Saharan Africa, and of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be 
made available to support initiatives by local communities in 
developing countries to build and maintain safe latrines.

                            budget documents

    Sec. 7061. (a) Operating Plans.--Not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each department, agency, or organization 
funded in titles I, II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this Act, 
including the Inter-American Foundation and the United States African 
Development Foundation, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations an operating plan for funds appropriated to such 
department, agency, or organization in such titles of this Act, or 
funds otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 2020, that 
provides details of the uses of such funds at the program, project, and 
activity level: Provided, That operating plans that include changes in 
levels of funding for programs, projects, and activities specified in 
the congressional budget justification, in this Act, or amounts 
specifically designated in the respective tables included in the report 
accompanying this Act, as applicable, shall be subject to the 
notification and reprogramming requirements of section 7015 of this 
Act.
    (b) Spend Plans.--
            (1) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of State or Administrator of the United States Agency 
        for International Development, as appropriate, shall submit to 
        the Committees on Appropriations a spend plan for funds made 
        available by this Act, for--
                    (A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, 
                Pakistan, Colombia, and countries in Central America;
                    (B) assistance made available pursuant to section 
                7046(c) of this Act to counter Russian influence and 
                aggression, except that such plan shall be on a 
                country-by-country basis;
                    (C) assistance made available pursuant to section 
                7059 of this Act;
                    (D) the Indo-Pacific Strategy;
                    (E) democracy programs, Power Africa, programs to 
                support section 7047(a) of this Act, and sectors 
                enumerated in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and 
                (g) of section 7060 of this Act; and
                    (F) funds provided under the heading 
                ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
                for International Organized Crime and for Cybercrime 
                and Intellectual Property Rights: Provided, That the 
                spend plans shall include bilateral and global programs 
                funded under such heading along with a brief 
                description of the activities planned for each country.
            (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
        by this Act under the heading ``Department of the Treasury, 
        International Affairs Technical Assistance'' in title III.
    (c) Clarification.--The spend plans referenced in subsection (b) 
shall not be considered as meeting the notification requirements in 
this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (d) Congressional Budget Justification.--
            (1) The congressional budget justification for Department 
        of State operations and foreign operations shall be provided to 
        the Committees on Appropriations concurrent with the date of 
        submission of the President's budget for fiscal year 2021: 
        Provided, That the appendices for such justification shall be 
        provided to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 10 
        calendar days thereafter: Provided further, That if the 
        appendices referenced in the preceding proviso are not provided 
        to such Committee by the date specified, none of the funds made 
        available under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' and 
        designated in paragraph (3) for Diplomatic Policy and Support 
        shall be available for travel and related expenses of the 
        Secretary of State until such budget appendices are provided to 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) The Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator 
        shall include in the congressional budget justification a 
        detailed justification for multi-year availability for any 
        funds requested under the headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' and 
        ``Operating Expenses''.
    (e) Change in Allocation of Foreign Assistance.--The Department of 
State shall fully comply with the notification requirement pursuant to 
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (Public Law 87-
195) not later than the period of time specified in such section: 
Provided, That if the report accompanying the notification referenced 
in the preceding sentence is not provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within the specified time, none of the funds made 
available under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' and designated in 
paragraph (3) for Diplomatic Policy and Support shall be available for 
travel and related expenses of the Secretary of State until such report 
is provided to the Committees on Appropriations.

                             reorganization

    Sec. 7062. (a) Prior Consultation and Notification.--Funds 
appropriated by this Act, prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs, or any 
other Act may not be used to implement a reorganization, redesign, or 
other plan described in paragraph (2) by the Department of State, the 
United States Agency for International Development, or any other 
Federal department, agency, or organization funded by this Act without 
prior consultation by the head of such department, agency, or 
organization with the appropriate congressional committees: Provided, 
That such funds shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That any such 
notification submitted to such Committees shall include a detailed 
justification for any proposed action, including the information 
specified under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (b) Description of Activities.--Pursuant to paragraph (1), a 
reorganization, redesign, or other plan shall include any action to--
            (1) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or downsize covered 
        departments, agencies, or organizations, including bureaus and 
        offices within or between such departments, agencies, or 
        organizations, including the transfer to other agencies of the 
        authorities and responsibilities of such bureaus and offices; 
        or
            (2) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or downsize the United 
        States official presence overseas including at bilateral, 
        regional, and multilateral diplomatic facilities and other 
        platforms.

                              designation

    Sec. 7063.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) 
only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
transmits such designations to the Congress.

          assistance for foreign nongovernmental organizations

    Sec. 7064.  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 104C the following:

``SEC. 104D ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation, or 
policy, in determining eligibility for assistance under sections 104, 
104A, 104B, and 104C, a foreign nongovernmental organization--
            ``(1) shall not be ineligible for such assistance solely on 
        the basis of health or medical services, including counseling 
        and referral services, provided by such organization with non-
        United States Government funds if such services--
                    ``(A) are permitted in the country in which they 
                are being provided; and
                    ``(B) would not violate United States law if 
                provided in the United States; and
            ``(2) shall not be subject to requirements relating to the 
        use of non-United States Government funds for advocacy and 
        lobbying activities other than those that apply to United 
        States nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance under 
        this part.''.

                           references to act

    Sec. 7065.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference 
to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

    Sec. 7066.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-78. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.

                          rescission of funds

    Sec. 7067.  Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
``Export and Investment Assistance, Export-Import Bank of the United 
States, Subsidy Appropriation'' for tied-aid grants from prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, $11,762,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 7068. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be made available to enter into any new 
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with any entity listed in 
subsection (b).
    (b) The entities listed in this subsection are the following:


 
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Trump International Hotel & Tower     Trump International Hotel & Golf      Trump International Hotel Las Vegas,
 Chicago, Chicago, IL                  Links Ireland (formerly The Lodge     Las Vegas, NV
                                       at Doonbeg), Doonbeg, Ireland
Trump National Doral Miami, Miami,    Trump International Hotel & Tower     Trump SoHo New York, New York City,
 FL                                    New York, New York City, NY           NY
Trump International Hotel & Tower,    Trump International Hotel Waikiki,    Trump International Hotel
 Vancouver, Vancouver, Canada          Honolulu, HI                          Washington, DC
Trump Tower, 721 Fifth Avenue, New    Trump World Tower, 845 United         Trump Park Avenue, 502 Park Avenue,
 York City, New York                   Nations Plaza, New York City, New     New York City, New York
                                       York
Trump International Hotel & Tower,    Trump Parc East, 100 Central Park     Trump Palace, 200 East 69th Street,
 NY                                    South, New York City, New York        New York City, New York
Heritage, Trump Place, 240 Riverside  Trump Place, 220 Riverside Blvd, New  Trump Place, 200 Riverside Blvd, New
 Blvd, New York City, New York         York City, New York                   York City, New York
Trump Grande, Sunny Isles, FL         Trump Hollywood Florida, Hollywood,   Trump Plaza, New Rochelle, NY
                                       Florida
Trump Tower at City Center,           Trump Park Residences, Yorktown, NY   Trump Parc Stamford, Stamford,
 Westchester, NY                                                             Connecticut
Trump Plaza Residences, Jersey City,  The Estate at Trump National, Los     Trump Towers Pune, India, Pune,
 NJ                                    Angeles, CA                           India
Trump Tower Mumbai, India, Mumbai,    Trump Towers Makati, Philippines,     Trump International Vancouver,
 India                                 Makati, Philippines                   Vancouver, Canada
Trump Towers Istanbul, Sisli,         Trump Tower Punta Del Este, Uruguay,  ....................................
 Istanbul, Sisli                       Punta Sel Este, Uruguay
Briar Hall Operations LLC, New York,  DT Dubai Golf Manager LLC, New York,  DT Dubai Golf Manager Member Corp,
 New York                              New York                              New York, New York
DT Dubai II Golf Manager LLC, New     DT Home Marks International LLC, New  DT Home Marks International Member
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
DT India Venture LLC, New York, New   DT India Venture Managing Member      DT Marks Baku LLC, New York, New
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              York
DT Marks Baku Managing Member Corp,   DT Marks Dubai LLC, New York, New     DT Marks Dubai Member Corp, New
 New York, New York                    York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Dubai II LLC, New York, New  DT Marks Dubai II Member Corp, New    ....................................
 York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Gurgaon LLC, New York, New   DT Marks Gurgaon Managing Member      DT Marks Jersey City LLC, New York,
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              New York
DT Marks Jupiter LLC, New York, New   DT Mark Qatar LLC, New York, New      DT Marks Qatar Member Corp, New
 York                                  York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Products International LLC,  DT Marks Product International        DT Marks Pune LLC, New York, New
 New York, New York                    Member Corp, New York, New York       York
DT Marks Pune Managing Member Corp,   DT MARKS PUNE II LLC, New York, New   DT Marks Pune II Managing Member
 New York, New York                    York                                  Corp, New York, New York
DT Marks Rio LLC, New York, New York  DT Marks Rio Member Corp, New York,   DT Marks Vancouver LP, New York, New
                                       New York                              York
DT Marks Vancouver Managing Member    DT Marks Worli LLC, New York, New     DT Marks Worli Member Corp, New
 Corp, New York, New York              York                                  York, New York
DT Tower Gurgaon LLC, New York, New   DT Tower Gurgaon Managing Member      Indian Hills Holdings LLC f/k/a
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              Indian Hills Development LLC, New
                                                                             York, New York
Jupiter Golf Club LLC (Trump          Jupiter Golf Club Managing Member     Lamington Family Holdings LLC, New
 National Gold Club-Jupiter), New      Corp, New York, New York              York, New York
 York, New York
Lawrence Towers Apartments, New       LFB Acquisition LLC, New York, New    LFB Acquisition Member Corp, New
 York, New York                        York                                  York, New York
Mar A Lago Club, Inc, Palm Beach,     Mar A Lago Club, L.L.C, New York,     Nitto World Co, Limited, Turnberry,
 Florida                               New York                              Scotland
OPO Hotel Manager LLC, New York, New  OPO Hotel Manager Member Corp, New    OWO Developer LLC, New York, New
 York                                  York, New York                        York
TIGL Ireland Enterprises Limited      TIGL Ireland Management Limited,      Ace Entertainment Holdings Inc (f/k/
 (Trump International Golf Links-      Doonbeg, Ireland                      a Trump Casinos Inc and formerly
 Doonbeg), Doonbeg, Ireland                                                  Trump Taj Mahal, Inc), Atlantic
                                                                             City, NJ
Trump Chicago Commercial Member       Trump Chicago Commercial Manager      Trump Chicago Development LLC, New
 Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York               York, New York
Trump Chicago Hotel Member Corp, New  Trump Chicago Hotel Manager LLC, New  Trump Chicago Managing Member LLC,
 York, New York                        York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Chicago Member LLC, New York,   Trump Chicago Residential Member      Trump Chicago Residential Manager
 New York                              Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York
Trump Chicago Retail LLC, New York,    Trump Chicago Retail Manager LLC,    Trump Chicago Retail Member Corp,
 New York                              New York, New York                    New York, New York
Trump Drinks Israel Holdings LLC,     Trump Drinks Israel Holdings Member   Trump Drinks Israel LLC, New York,
 New York, New York                    Corp, New York, New York              New York
Trump Drinks Israel Member Corp, New  Trump Endeavor 12 LLC (Trump          Trump Endeavor 12 Manager Corp, New
 York, New York                        National Doral), New York, New York   York, New York
Trump Golf Acquisitions LLC, New      Trump Golf Coco Beach LLC, New York,  Trump Golf Coco Beach Member Corp,
 York, New York                        New York                              New York, New York
Trump International Development LLC,  Trump International Golf Club LC      Trump International Golf Club
 New York, New York                    (Trump International Golf Club-       Scotland Limited, Aberdeen,
                                       Florida), New York, New York          Scotland
Trump International Golf Club, Inc,   Trump International Hotel and Tower   Trump International Hotel Hawaii
 Palm Beach, Florida                   Condominium, New York, New York       LLC, New York, New York
Trump International Hotels            Trump International Management Corp,  Trump Korean Projects LLC, New York,
 Management LLC, New York, New York    New York, New York                    New York
Trump Marks Atlanta LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Atlanta Member Corp, New  Trump Marks Baja Corp, New York, New
 New York                              York, New York                        York
Trump Marks Baja LLC, New York, New   Trump Marks Batumi, LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Beverages Corp, New
 York                                  New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Beverages, LLC New York,  Trump Marks Canouan Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Canouan, LLC New York,
 New York                              New York                              New York
Trump Marks Chicago LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Chicago Member Corp, New  Trump Marks Dubai Corp, New York,
 New York                              York, New York                        New York
Trump Marks Dubai LLC, New York, New  Trump Marks Egypt Corp, New York,     Trump Marks Egypt LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Marks Fine Foods LLC, New       Trump Marks Fine Foods Member Corp,   Trump Marks Ft. Lauderdale LLC, New
 York, New York                        New York, New York                    York, New York
Trump Marks Ft. Lauderdale Member     Trump Marks GP Corp, New York, New    Trump Marks Holding LP (FKA Trump
 Corp, New York, New York              York                                  Marks LP), New York, New York
Trump Marks Hollywood Corp, New       Trump Marks Hollywood LLC, New York,  Trump Marks Istanbul II Corp, New
 York, New York                        New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Istanbul II LLC, New      Trump Marks Jersey City Corp, New     Trump Marks Jersey City LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Mattress LLC, New York,   Trump Marks Mattress Member Corp,     Trump Marks Menswear LLC, New York,
 New York                              New York, New York                    New York
Trump Marks Menswear Member Corp,     Trump Marks Mortgage Corp, New York,  Trump Marks Mtg LLC, New York, New
 New York, New York                    New York                              York
Trump Marks Mumbai LLC, New York,     Trump Marks Mumbai Member Corp, New   Trump Marks New Rochelle Corp, New
 New York                              York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks New Rochelle LLC, New     Trump Marks Palm Beach Corp, New      Trump Marks Palm Beach LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Panama Corp, New York,    Trump Marks Panama LLC, New York,     Trump Marks Philadelphia Corp, New
 New York                              New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Philadelphia LLC, New      Trump Marks Philippines Corp, New    Trump Marks Philippines LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Products LLC, New York,   The Trump Organization, Inc, New      ....................................
 New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Products Member Corp,     Trump Marks Puerto Rico I LLC, New    Trump Marks Puerto Rico I Member
 New York, New York                    York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump Marks Puerto Rico II LLC, New   Trump Marks Puerto Rico II Member     Trump Marks Punta del Este LLC, New
 York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York              York, New York
Trump Marks Punta del Este Manager    The Donald J. Trump Company LLC, New  The Trump Marks Real Estate Corp,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Marks SOHO License Corp, New    Trump Marks SOHO LLC, New York, New   Trump Marks Stamford LLC, New York,
 York, New York                        York                                  New York
Trump Marks Stamford Corp, New York,  Trump Marks Sunny Isles I LLC, New    Trump Marks Sunny Isles I Member
 New York                              York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump Marks Sunny Isles II LLC, New   Trump Marks Sunny Isles II Member     Trump Marks Tampa Corp, New York,
 York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York              New York
Trump Marks Tampa LLC, New York, New  Trump Marks Toronto Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Toronto LLC, New York,
 York                                  New York                              New York
Trump Marks Toronto LP (formally      Trump Marks Waikiki Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Waikiki LLC, New York,
 Trump Toronto Management LP), New     New York                              New York
 York, New York
Trump Marks Westchester Corp, New     Trump Marks Westchester LLC, New      Trump Marks White Plains LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Miami Resort Management LLC,    Trump Miami Resort Management Member  Trump National Golf Club Colts Neck
 New York, New York                    Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York
Trump National Golf Club Colts Neck   Trump National Golf Club LLC (Trump   Trump National Golf Club Member
 Member Corp, New York, New York       National Golf Club- Westchester),     Corp, New York, New York
                                       New York, New York
Trump National Golf Club Washington   Trump National Golf Club Washington   ....................................
 DC LCC, New York, New York            DC Member Corp, New York, New York
                                      Trump Old Post Office LLC, New York,  Trump Old Post Office Member Corp,
                                       New York                              New York, New York
Trump On the Ocean LLC, New York,     Trump Organization LLC, New York,     The Trump Organization, New York,
 New York                              New York                              New York
Trump Pageants, Inc, New York, New    Trump Palace Condominium, New York,   Trump Palace/Parc LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Panama Condominium Management   Trump Panama Condominium Member       Trump Panama Hotel Management LLC,
 LLC, New York, New York               Corp, New York, New York              New York, New York
Trump Panama Hotel Management Member  Trump Parc East Condominium, New      Trump Park Avenue Acquisition LLC,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Park Avenue LLC, New York, New  Trump Payroll Chicago LLC, New York,  Trump Payroll Corp, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Phoenix Development LLC, New    Trump Plaza LLC, New York, New York   Trump Plaza Member Inc (F/K/A Trump
 York, New York                                                              Plaza Corp), New York, New York
Trump Productions LLC (former Rancho   Trump Production Managing Member     Trump Project Manager Corp, New
 Lien LLC), New York, New York         Inc, New York, New York               York, New York
Trump Realty Services, LLc (f/k/a      Trump Restaurants LLC, New York,     Trump Riverside Management LLC, New
 Trump Mortgage Services LLC (03) &    New York                              York, New York
 Tower Mortgage Services LLC), Palm
 Beach, Florida
Trump Ruffin Commercial LLC, New       Trump Ruffin LLC, Las Vegas, NV      Trump Ruffin Tower I LLC, Las Vegas,
 York, New York                                                              NV
Trump Sales & Leasing Chicago LLC,    Trump Sales & Leasing Chicago Member  Trump Scotland Member Inc, Aberdeen,
 Chicago, IL                           Corp, Chicago, IL                     Scotland
Trump Scotsborough Square LLC,        Trump SoHo Hotel Condominium New      Trump SoHo Member LLC, New York, New
 Scotsborough Square, VA               York, New York, New York              York
Trump Toronto Hotel Member Corp, New  Trump Toronto Development Inc, New    Trump Toronto Member Corp (formally
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Trump Toronto Management Member
                                                                             Corp), New York, New York
Trump Tower Commercial LLC, New       Trump Tower Condominium Residential   Trump Tower Managing Member Inc, New
 York, New York                        Section, New York, New York           York, New York
Trump Village Construction Corp, New  Trump Vineyard Estates LLC, New       Trump Vineyard Estates Manager Corp,
 York, New York                        York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Vineyard Estates Lot 3 Owner    Trump Virginia Acquisitions LLC (fka  Trump Virginia Acquisitions Manager
 LLC (F/K/A Eric Trump Land Holdings   Virginia Acquisitions LLC), New       Corp, New York, New York
 LLC), New York, New York              York, New York
Trump Virginia Lot 5 LLC, New York,   Trump Virginia Lot 5 Manager Corp,    Trump Wine Marks LLC, New York, New
 New York                              New York, New York                    York
Trump Wine Marks Member Corp, New     Trump World Productions LLC, New      Trump World Productions Manager
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump World Publications LLC, New     Trump/New World Property Management   Trump's Castle Management Corp,
 York, New York                        LLC, New York, New York               Atlantic City, NJ
Trump Marks White Plains Corp, New    Turnberry Scotland Managing Member    Turnberry Scotland LLC, Turnberry,
 York, New York                        Corp, Turnberry, Scotland             Scotland
TW Venture I LLC, Palm Beach,         TW Venture II LLC, Doonbeg, Ireland   TW Venture I Managing Member Corp,
 Florida                                                                     Palm Beach, Florida
TW Venture II Managing Member Corp,   Ultimate Air Corp, New York, New      Unit 2502 Enterprises Corp, Chicago,
 Doonbeg, Ireland                      York                                  IL
Unit 2502 Enterprises LLC, Chicago,   VH Property Corp (Trump National      VHPS LLC, Los Angeles, CA
 IL                                    Golf Club-Los Angeles), Los
                                       Angeles, CA
West Palm Operations LLC, WPB,        Wexford Hall Inc., New York, New      White Course LLC, Miami, FL
 Florida                               York
White Course Managing Member Corp,    Wilshire Hall LLC, New York, New      Wollman Rink Operations LLC, New
 Miami FL                              York                                  York, New York
Yorktown Real Estate LLC (F/K/A/      The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976   The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976
 Yorktown Development Associates       Trust- F/B/O Donald J. Trump, New     Trust- F/B/O Robert S. Trump, New
 LLC), New York, New York              York, New York                        York, New York
The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976   Fred C. Trump GRAT Trust- F/B/O       Trust U/W/O Fred C. Trump- F/B/O
 Trust- F/B/O Elizabeth J. Trump,      Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New   Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New
 New York, New York                    York                                  York
Maryanne Trump GRAT Trust- F/B/O      Trust U/W/O Fred C. Trump- F/B/O the  The Donald J. Trump grantor Trust -
 Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New   grandchildren of Fred C. Trump, New   DJT is the Trustee Successor -
 York                                  York, New York                        Trustee is Donald J. Trump, Jr.,
                                                                             New York, New York
The Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust,  The Police Athletic League, Inc, New  DT Bali Golf Manager LLC, New York,
 New York, New York                    York, New York                        New York
DT Bali Golf Manager Member Corp,     DT Bali Hotel Manager LLC, New York,  DT Bali Hotel Manager Member Corp,
 New York, New York                    New York                              New York, New York
DT Bali Technical Services Manager    DT Bali Technical Services Manager    DT Connect Europe Limited,
 LLC, New York, New York               Member Corp, New York, New York       Turnberry, Scotland
DT Endeavor I LLC, New York, New      DT Endeavor I Member Corp, New York,  DT Lido Golf Manager LLC, New York,
 York                                  New York                              New York
DT Lido Golf Manager Member Corp,     DT Lido Hotel Manager LLC, New York,  DT Lido Hotel Manager Member Corp,
 New York, New York                    New York                              New York, New York
DT Marks Bali LLC, New York, New      DT Marks Bali Member Corp, New York,  DT Marks Lido LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
DT Marks Lido Member Corp, New York,  DT Tower I LLC, New York, New York    DT Tower I Member Corp, New York,
 New York                                                                    New York
DT Tower II LLC, New York, New York   DT Tower II Member Corp, New York,    DT Tower Kolkata LLC, New York, New
                                       New York                              York
DT Tower Kolkata Managing Member      DT Venture I LLC, New York, New York  DT Venture I Member Corp, New York,
 Corp, New York, New York                                                    New York
DT Venture II LLC, New York, New      DT Venture II Member Corp, New York,  DTTM Operations LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
DTTM Operations Managing Member, New  EID Venture II LLC, New York, New     EID Venture II Member Corp, New
 York, New York                        York                                  York, New York
THC DC Restaurant Hospitality LLC,    Lamington Farm Club (TRUMP NATIONAL   Mobile Payroll Construction LLC, New
 New York, New York                    GOLF CLUB-BEDMINSTER)*, Bedminster,   York, New York
                                       NJ
Mobile Payroll Construction Manager   C DEVELOPMENT VENTURES LLC, New       C DEVELOPMENT VENTURES MEMBER CORP,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
TC MARKS BUENOS AIRES LLC, New York,  WMTMF LLC, New York, New York         Midland Associates, New York, New
 New York                                                                    York
Miss Universe L.P., LLP (formerly     Trump Central Park West Corp, New     DT Marks Qatar LLC, New York, New
 Trump Pageants, L.P.), New York,      York, New York                        York
 New York
40 Wall Street LLC, New York, New     401 North Wabash Venture LLC,         809 North Canon LLC, Beverly Hills,
 York                                  Chicago, IL                           CA
Caribuslness Investments, S.R.L.,     County Properties, LLC, Norfolk, VA   DJT Aerospace LLC, New York, New
 Dominican Republic                                                          York
DJT Operations I LLC, New York, New   DT Connect II LLC, Palm Beach,        Excel Venture I LLC, St. Martin,
 York                                  Florida                               French West Indies
Fifty-Seventh Street Associates LLC,  Pine Hill Development LLC, Pine       Seven Springs LLC, Mt. Kisco, NY
 New York, New York                    Hill, NJ
Trump Turnberry , Turnberry,          The East 61 Street Company, LP, New   The Trump Corporation, New York, New
 Scotland                              York, New York                        York
TIHT Commercial LLC, New York, New    TIHT Holding Company LLC, New York,   Trump National Golf Club - Hudson
 York                                  New York                              Valley, Hopewell Junction, NY
Trump National Golf Club -            Trump National Golf Club -            Trump International Golf Links -
 Charlotte, Charlotte, NC              Philadelphia, Pine Hill, NJ           Scotland, Aberdeen, Scotland
Trump Las Vegas Development LLC, Las  Trump Marks Asia LLC, Sterling, VA    Trump Model Management LLC, New
 Vegas, NV                                                                   York, New York
Trump National Golf Club -            1125 South Ocean LLC, Palm Beach,     T Promotions LLC, New York, New York
 Washington DC, Potomac Falls, VA      Florida
HWA 555 Owners, LLC, San Francisco,   1290 Avenue of the Americas, A        Trump Tower Triplex, New York, New
 CA                                    Tenancy-In-Common, New York, New      York
                                       York
NIKIA DTW VENTURE LLC, Palm Beach,    THC Vancouver Management Corp,        TNGC Jupiter Management Corp,
 Florida                               Vancouver, Canada                     Jupiter, FL
Trump Toronto Hotel Management Corp,  Trump Management Inc., Manhasset, NY  THC Miami Restaurant Hospitality
 New York, New York                                                          LLC, Miami, FL
THC IMEA Development LLC, New York,   DT Lido Technical Services Manager    Trump Las Vegas Sales & Marketing,
 New York                              LLC, Lido, Indonesia                  Inc., Las Vegas, NV
Albemarle Estate, Charlottesville,    MacLeod House & Lodge, Aberdeen,      Trump Golf Links at Ferry Point, New
 VA                                    Scotland                              York City, New York
Trump International Golf Club,        Trump World Golf Club Dubai, UAE      Trump International Resort & Golf
 Dubai, UAE                                                                  Club Lido, Lido City, Indonesia
Seven Springs, Bedford, NY            Le Chateau des Palmiers, St. Martin,  Trump World, Seoul, South Korea
                                       French West Indies
Trump Towers, Sunny Isles, FL         ....................................  ....................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Sec. 7069.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``International Military Education and Training'' may be made 
available for assistance for the Government of Saudi Arabia.
    Sec. 7070.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to establish the Department of State's Commission on Unalienable 
Rights, as proposed in Federal Register Vol. 84, No. 104, on May 30, 
2019 (Public Notice 1077).
    Sec. 7071.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to withdraw the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, done 
at Washington, DC on April 4, 1949.
    Sec. 7072.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used in violation of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle B 
of title XVII of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115-232).
    Sec. 7073.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to provide assistance to Forces Armees d'Haiti.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2020''.

     DIVISION E--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for energy and water development 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and 
for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

    For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the collection 
and study of basic information pertaining to river and harbor, flood 
and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related needs; for surveys and detailed studies, and 
plans and specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm 
damage reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem restoration 
projects, and related efforts prior to construction; for restudy of 
authorized projects; and for miscellaneous investigations, and, when 
authorized by law, surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
specifications of projects prior to construction, $135,000,000 (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary shall initiate six new study starts during fiscal year 2020:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall not deviate from the new 
starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                              construction

    For expenses necessary for the construction of river and harbor, 
flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related projects authorized by law; for conducting 
detailed studies, and plans and specifications, of such projects 
(including those involving participation by States, local governments, 
or private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by law 
(but such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, shall not 
constitute a commitment of the Government to construction); 
$2,337,000,000 (reduced by $45,000,000) (increased by $45,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $40,000,000) (reduced by 
$40,000,000) (reduced by $100,000,000) (increased by $100,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
$7,500,000) (increased by $7,500,000) (reduced by $30,000,000) 
(increased by $30,000,000), to remain available until expended; of 
which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of 
construction costs for facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal 
Facilities program shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
Fund as authorized by Public Law 104-303; and of which such sums as are 
necessary to cover one-half of the costs of construction, replacement, 
rehabilitation, and expansion of inland waterways projects shall be 
derived from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, except as otherwise 
specifically provided for in law:  Provided, That the Secretary shall 
initiate six new construction starts during fiscal year 2020:  Provided 
further, That for new construction projects, project cost sharing 
agreements shall be executed as soon as practicable but no later than 
September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That no allocation for a new 
start shall be considered final and no work allowance shall be made 
until the Secretary provides to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress an out-year funding scenario demonstrating the 
affordability of the selected new starts and the impacts on other 
projects:  Provided further, That the Secretary may not deviate from 
the new starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                   mississippi river and tributaries

    For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects and 
related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley below Cape 
Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, $350,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
the Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for 
inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                       operation and maintenance

    For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of 
existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, aquatic 
ecosystem restoration, and related projects authorized by law; 
providing security for infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, 
including administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality, or other public agency that 
serve essential navigation needs of general commerce, where authorized 
by law; surveying and charting northern and northwestern lakes and 
connecting waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removing 
obstructions to navigation, $3,923,000,000 (increased by $4,000,000) 
(increased by $75,000,000) (reduced by $75,000,000) (increased by 
$3,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to 
remain available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary to 
cover the Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for 
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland harbors shall be derived 
from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund; of which such sums as become 
available from the special account for the Corps of Engineers 
established by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall 
be derived from that account for resource protection, research, 
interpretation, and maintenance activities related to resource 
protection in the areas at which outdoor recreation is available; and 
of which such sums as become available from fees collected under 
section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall be used to cover the cost of 
operation and maintenance of the dredged material disposal facilities 
for which such fees have been collected:  Provided, That 1 percent of 
the total amount of funds provided for each of the programs, projects, 
or activities funded under this heading shall not be allocated to a 
field operating activity prior to the beginning of the fourth quarter 
of the fiscal year and shall be available for use by the Chief of 
Engineers to fund such emergency activities as the Chief of Engineers 
determines to be necessary and appropriate, and that the Chief of 
Engineers shall allocate during the fourth quarter any remaining funds 
which have not been used for emergency activities proportionally in 
accordance with the amounts provided for the programs, projects, or 
activities.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $210,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

            formerly utilized sites remedial action program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites in the 
United States resulting from work performed as part of the Nation's 
early atomic energy program, $155,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other 
natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters as authorized by law, 
$37,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                                expenses

    For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
administration of the civil works program in the headquarters of the 
Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division Engineers; and for 
costs of management and operation of the Humphreys Engineer Center 
Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, the United States 
Army Engineer Research and Development Center, and the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
program, $203,000,000 (reduced by $4,000,000) (reduced by $4,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by 
$2,500,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which not 
to exceed $5,000 may be used for official reception and representation 
purposes and only during the current fiscal year:  Provided, That no 
part of any other appropriation provided in this title shall be 
available to fund the civil works activities of the Office of the Chief 
of Engineers or the civil works executive direction and management 
activities of the division offices:  Provided further, That any Flood 
Control and Coastal Emergencies appropriation may be used to fund the 
supervision and general administration of emergency operations, 
repairs, and other activities in response to any flood, hurricane, or 
other natural disaster.

     office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

    For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), $5,000,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That not more than 25 percent of such amount may be obligated or 
expended until the Assistant Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a work plan that allocates at 
least 95 percent of the additional funding provided under each heading 
in this title, as designated under such heading in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, to specific 
programs, projects, or activities.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        this Act;
            (4) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act;
            (5) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        by more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (6) reduces funds for any program, project, or activity by 
        more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less.
    (b) Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to any project or activity 
authorized under section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948, section 
14 of the Flood Control Act of 1946, section 208 of the Flood Control 
Act of 1954, section 107 of the River and Harbor Act of 1960, section 
103 of the River and Harbor Act of 1962, section 111 of the River and 
Harbor Act of 1968, section 1135 of the Water Resources Development Act 
of 1986, section 206 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996, or 
section 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992.
    (c) The Corps of Engineers shall submit reports on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
detailing all the funds reprogrammed between programs, projects, 
activities, or categories of funding. The first quarterly report shall 
be submitted not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to award or modify any contract that commits funds beyond the 
amounts appropriated for that program, project, or activity that remain 
unobligated, except that such amounts may include any funds that have 
been made available through reprogramming pursuant to section 101.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the Fish and 
Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service may accept and 
expend, up to $5,400,000 of funds provided in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to mitigate for fisheries lost 
due to Corps of Engineers projects.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for an open 
lake placement alternative for dredged material, after evaluating the 
least costly, environmentally acceptable manner for the disposal or 
management of dredged material originating from Lake Erie or 
tributaries thereto, unless it is approved under a State water quality 
certification pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1341):  Provided, That until an open lake 
placement alternative for dredged material is approved under a State 
water quality certification, the Corps of Engineers shall continue 
upland placement of such dredged material consistent with the 
requirements of section 101 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211).
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out any water supply reallocation study under the Wolf Creek 
Dam, Lake Cumberland, Kentucky, project authorized under the Act of 
July 24, 1946 (60 Stat. 636, ch. 595).
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used to reorganize or to transfer the Civil Works 
functions or authority of the Corps of Engineers or the Secretary of 
the Army to another department or agency.
    Sec. 107.  Additional funding provided in this Act shall be 
allocated only to projects determined to be eligible by the Chief of 
Engineers.
    Sec. 108.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any prior 
appropriations Acts for the Civil Works Program of the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers may be committed, obligated, expended, or 
otherwise used to design or construct a wall, fence, border barriers, 
or border security infrastructure along the southern border of the 
United States.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $15,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000), to remain 
available until expended, of which $1,800,000 shall be deposited into 
the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the 
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission:  Provided, 
That of the amount provided under this heading, $1,500,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for expenses necessary in carrying 
out related responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior:  
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, of the amount made 
available to the Commission under this Act or any other Act, the 
Commission may use an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for 
administrative expenses.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute 
authorized functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                      water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, federally recognized Indian tribes, 
and others, $1,485,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $4,000,000), to 
remain available until expended, of which $70,332,000 shall be 
available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund and 
$5,023,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado River 
Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be necessary may 
be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund:  Provided, That such 
transfers may be increased or decreased within the overall 
appropriation under this heading:  Provided further, That of the total 
appropriated, the amount for program activities that can be financed by 
the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special fee account 
established by 16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that Fund or 
account:  Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 
are available until expended for the purposes for which the funds were 
contributed:  Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 
397a shall be credited to this account and are available until expended 
for the same purposes as the sums appropriated under this heading:  
Provided further, That of the amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for high-priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706:  Provided further, 
That in accordance with section 4009(c) of Public Law 114-322 and as 
recommended by the Secretary in a letter dated February 13, 2019, 
funding provided for such purpose in fiscal year 2018 shall be made 
available to the Expanding Recycled Water Delivery Project 
(VenturaWaterPure), the Pure Water Monterey-Groundwater Replenishment 
Project, the Groundwater Reliability Improvement Program (GRIP) 
Recycled Water Project, the North Valley Regional Recycled Water 
Program, the South Sacramento County Agriculture and Habitat Lands 
Recycled Water Program, and the Central Coast Blue Project:  Provided 
further, That in accordance with section 4007 of Public Law 114-322 and 
as recommended by the Secretary in a letter dated February 13, 2019, 
funding provided for such purpose in fiscal years 2017 and 2018 shall 
be made available to the Cle Elum Pool Raise, the Boise River Basin 
Feasibility Study, the Del Puerto Water District, the Los Vaqueros 
Reservoir Phase 2 Expansion Project, the North-of-the-Delta Off stream 
storage (Sites Reservoir Project), and the Friant-Kern Canal Capacity 
Correction Resulting Subsidence:  Provided further, That in accordance 
with section 4009(a) of Public Law 114-322 and as recommended by the 
Secretary in a letter dated February 13, 2019, funding provided for 
such purpose in fiscal years 2017 and 2018 shall be made available to 
the Doheny Ocean Desalination Project, the Kay Bailey Hutchison 
Desalination Plant, the North Pleasant Valley Desalter Facility and the 
Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility Well Expansion and 
Brine Minimization.

                central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, $54,849,000, to be derived from such 
sums as may be collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 
102-575, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the Bureau 
of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount of the 
additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized by section 
3407(d) of Public Law 102-575:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading may be used for the acquisition 
or leasing of water for in-stream purposes if the water is already 
committed to in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent with plans 
to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, $33,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such amounts as may be necessary to 
carry out such activities may be transferred to appropriate accounts of 
other participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized purposes:  
Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be used for the Federal 
share of the costs of CALFED Program management:  Provided further, 
That CALFED implementation shall be carried out in a balanced manner 
with clear performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                       policy and administration

    For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and related 
functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, $60,000,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000), to be derived from the Reclamation Fund and be 
nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377:  Provided, That no part 
of any other appropriation in this Act shall be available for 
activities or functions budgeted as policy and administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles, which are for 
replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act;
            (4) restarts or resumes any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress;
            (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits--
                    (A) 15 percent for any program, project, or 
                activity for which $2,000,000 or more is available at 
                the beginning of the fiscal year; or
                    (B) $400,000 for any program, project, or activity 
                for which less than $2,000,000 is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year;
            (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
        Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
        Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
        project, or activity in the other category; or
            (7) transfers, where necessary to discharge legal 
        obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than $5,000,000 
        to provide adequate funds for settled contractor claims, 
        increased contractor earnings due to accelerated rates of 
        operations, and real estate deficiency judgments.
    (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of funds 
within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation 
category.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``transfer'' means any 
movement of funds into or out of a program, project, or activity.
    (d) The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit reports on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
detailing all the funds reprogrammed between programs, projects, 
activities, or categories of funding. The first quarterly report shall 
be submitted not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of 
California of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality 
standards of the State of California as approved by the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental 
effect of the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal 
reclamation law.
    Sec. 203.  Section 9504(e) of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 10364(e)) is amended by striking 
``$480,000,000'' and inserting ``$510,000,000''.
    Sec. 204.  Title I of Public Law 108-361 (the CALFED Bay-Delta 
Authorization Act) (118 Stat. 1681) is amended by striking ``2019'' 
each place it appears and inserting ``2020''.
    Sec. 205.  Section 9106(g)(2) of Public Law 111-11 (Omnibus Public 
Land Management Act of 2009) is amended by striking ``2019'' and 
inserting ``2020''.
    Sec. 206.  The Claims Resolution Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-291) 
is amended--
            (1) in section 309(d), by striking ``2021'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``2023''; and
            (2) in section 311(h), by striking ``2021'' and inserting 
        ``2023''.

                               TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                            ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy efficiency and renewable energy 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $2,651,713,000 
(increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $16,308,000) 
(reduced by $16,308,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $163,521,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

         Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy sector cybersecurity, energy security, 
and emergency response activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $150,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000), to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $13,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

                              Electricity

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for electricity delivery activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $200,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $19,600,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $1,317,808,000 (reduced by $1) (increased 
by $1) (reduced by $1,317,808,000) (increased by $1,317,808,000) 
(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
such amount, $80,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2021, 
for program direction.

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out fossil 
energy research and development activities, under the authority of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition of interest, including defeasible and 
equitable interests in any real property or any facility or for plant 
or facility acquisition or expansion, and for conducting inquiries, 
technological investigations and research concerning the extraction, 
processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 
1603), $740,000,000 (reduced by $2,400,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount $61,045,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $14,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, unobligated funds remaining from prior years shall be 
available for all naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                      Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve facility development and operations and program management 
activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $214,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
 Provided, That, as authorized by section 404 of the Bipartisan Budget 
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-74; 42 U.S.C. 6239 note), the Secretary of 
Energy shall draw down and sell not to exceed $450,000,000 of crude oil 
from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in fiscal year 2020:  Provided 
further, That the proceeds from such drawdown and sale shall be 
deposited into the ``Energy Security and Infrastructure Modernization 
Fund'' during fiscal year 2020:  Provided further, That such amounts 
shall be made available and shall remain available until expended for 
necessary expenses to carry out the Life Extension II project for the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

                         SPR Petroleum Account

    For the acquisition, transportation, and injection of petroleum 
products, and for other necessary expenses pursuant to the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6201 et 
seq.), sections 403 and 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 
U.S.C. 6241, 6239 note), and section 5010 of the 21st Century Cures Act 
(Public Law 114-255), $10,200,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast Home 
Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management activities 
pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et 
seq.), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Energy Information Administration

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities of the Energy Information Administration, $128,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental cleanup activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of 
any real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $308,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out uranium 
enrichment facility decontamination and decommissioning, remedial 
actions, and other activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, and title X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 
$873,479,000, to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination 
and Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until expended, of which 
$30,514,000 shall be available in accordance with title X, subtitle A, 
of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not more than 33 passenger motor vehicles 
including one bus, $6,870,000,000 (reduced by $15,000,000) (increased 
by $15,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
such amount, $186,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2021, 
for program direction.

               Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities authorized by section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act 
(Public Law 110-69), $425,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $34,000,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

         Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

    Such sums as are derived from amounts received from borrowers 
pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 under this 
heading in prior Acts, shall be collected in accordance with section 
502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided, That for 
necessary administrative expenses of the Title 17 Innovative Technology 
Loan Guarantee Program, as authorized, $33,000,000 is appropriated, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That up 
to $33,000,000 of fees collected in fiscal year 2020 pursuant to 
section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall be credited as 
offsetting collections under this heading and used for necessary 
administrative expenses in this appropriation and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That to the 
extent that fees collected in fiscal year 2020 exceed $33,000,000, 
those excess amounts shall be credited as offsetting collections under 
this heading and available in future fiscal years only to the extent 
provided in advance in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced: (1) as 
such fees are received during fiscal year 2020 (estimated at 
$3,000,000); and (2) to the extent that any remaining general fund 
appropriations can be derived from fees collected in previous fiscal 
years that are not otherwise appropriated, so as to result in a final 
fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0:  
Provided further, That the Department of Energy shall not subordinate 
any loan obligation to other financing in violation of section 1702 of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 or subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation 
to any loan or other debt obligations in violation of section 609.10 of 
title 10, Code of Federal Regulations.

        Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
Program, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                  Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program, $1,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

              Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs

    For necessary expenses for Indian Energy activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), $25,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That, of the amount appropriated 
under this heading, $4,800,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2021, for program direction.

                      Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$264,378,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced 
by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced 
by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, including the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $30,000, plus such additional amounts as 
necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost of work 
for others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act 
(31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.):  Provided, That such increases in cost of 
work are offset by revenue increases of the same or greater amount:  
Provided further, That moneys received by the Department for 
miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $93,378,000 in fiscal year 
2020 may be retained and used for operating expenses within this 
account, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$171,000,000.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$54,215,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed one ambulance for replacement only, $11,760,800,000 
(increased by $123,000,000) (reduced by $123,000,000), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $107,660,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear nonproliferation 
activities, in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed two aircraft, $2,079,930,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000), to remain available until expended.

                             Naval Reactors

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $1,628,551,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which, $88,500,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Nuclear 
Energy'', for the Advanced Test Reactor:  Provided, That of such 
amount, $50,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 2021, for 
program direction.

                     Federal Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, $425,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, including official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $17,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                     Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $5,993,650,000 
(reduced by $6,500,000) (increased by $6,500,000), to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $298,500,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for program direction.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense 
activities, and classified activities, in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $901,261,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $324,798,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2021, for program direction.

                    POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for the 
Steigerwald Floodplain Restoration Project and, in addition, for 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $5,000:  Provided, That during fiscal year 2020, no new direct 
loan obligations may be made:  Provided further, Expenditures from the 
Bonneville Power Administration Fund, established pursuant to Public 
Law 93-454 are authorized and approved, without fiscal year limitation, 
for the cost of current and future year purchases or payments of 
emissions expenses associated with Bonneville Power Administration 
power and transmission operations in states with clean energy programs: 
 Provided further, This expenditure authorization is limited solely to 
Bonneville Power Administration's voluntary purchase or payments made 
in conjunction with state clean energy programs and is not a broader 
waiver of Bonneville Power Administration's sovereign immunity.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southeastern power area, $6,597,000, including official 
reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed 
$1,500, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the Flood Control Act 
of 1944, up to $6,597,000 collected by the Southeastern Power 
Administration from the sale of power and related services shall be 
credited to this account as discretionary offsetting collections, to 
remain available until expended for the sole purpose of funding the 
annual expenses of the Southeastern Power Administration:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $0:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to 
$56,000,000 collected by the Southeastern Power Administration pursuant 
to the Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, That for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power 
Administration, $47,775,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the 
Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), up to $37,375,000 collected 
by the Southwestern Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $10,400,000:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $15,000,000 collected by the 
Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 
1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited 
to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
expenditures:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally 
recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase 
power and wheeling expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, $262,959,000, including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended, of which $262,959,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the Interior Department 
Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), up to $173,587,000 collected 
by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $89,372,000, of which $89,372,000 is derived 
from the Reclamation Fund:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, up to $168,000,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, That for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses):  Provided further, 
That of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations 
available under this heading, $176,000 is hereby permanently cancelled.

           Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $3,160,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 
(68 Stat. 255):  Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that 
Act and of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $2,932,000 collected by the Western 
Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related services 
from the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the 
hydroelectric facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area 
Power Administration activities:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at not more than $228,000:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means 
expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that they 
are incurred:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, the 
Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may accept up to 
$1,187,000 in funds contributed by United States power customers of the 
Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit into the Falcon and Amistad 
Operating and Maintenance Fund, and such funds shall be available for 
the purpose for which contributed in like manner as if said sums had 
been specifically appropriated for such purpose:  Provided further, 
That any such funds shall be available without further appropriation 
and without fiscal year limitation for use by the Commissioner of the 
United States Section of the International Boundary and Water 
Commission for the sole purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, 
rehabilitating, replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at 
these Dams in accordance with agreements reached between the 
Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $3,000, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $382,000,000 
(reduced by $500,000) (increased by $500,000), to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, not to exceed $382,000,000 of revenues from fees and annual 
charges, and other services and collections in fiscal year 2020 shall 
be retained and used for expenses necessary in this account, and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as revenues are 
received during fiscal year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made available 
by this title for the Department of Energy shall be used to initiate or 
resume any program, project, or activity or to prepare or initiate 
Requests For Proposals or similar arrangements (including Requests for 
Quotations, Requests for Information, and Funding Opportunity 
Announcements) for a program, project, or activity if the program, 
project, or activity has not been funded by Congress.
    (b)(1) Unless the Secretary of Energy notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 3 full business days 
in advance, none of the funds made available in this title may be used 
to--
            (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other 
        Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including a 
        contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
            (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
        or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or 
        (B); or
            (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
        award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) 
        or (B).
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress within 15 days of the 
conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each grant allocation or 
discretionary grant award totaling less than $1,000,000 provided during 
the previous quarter.
    (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the report 
required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient of the award, the 
amount of the award, the fiscal year for which the funds for the award 
were appropriated, the account and program, project, or activity from 
which the funds are being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief 
description of the activity for which the award is made.
    (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any program, 
project, or activity that uses budget authority made available in this 
title under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs'', 
enter into a multiyear contract, award a multiyear grant, or enter into 
a multiyear cooperative agreement unless--
            (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
        for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time 
        of award; or
            (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes 
        a clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on 
        the availability of future year budget authority and the 
        Secretary notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress at least 3 days in advance.
    (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), the 
amounts made available by this title shall be expended as authorized by 
law for the programs, projects, and activities specified in the 
``Bill'' column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under 
the heading ``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act.
    (e) The amounts made available by this title may be reprogrammed 
for any program, project, or activity, and the Department shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 
days prior to the use of any proposed reprogramming that would cause 
any program, project, or activity funding level to increase or decrease 
by more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during the 
time period covered by this Act.
    (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, 
        or activity;
            (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act; or
            (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act.
    (g)(1) The Secretary of Energy may waive any requirement or 
restriction in this section that applies to the use of funds made 
available for the Department of Energy if compliance with such 
requirement or restriction would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under paragraph 
(1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 days after the date of 
the activity to which a requirement or restriction would otherwise have 
applied. Such notice shall include an explanation of the substantial 
risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver.
    (h) The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for 
activities in this Act may be available to the same appropriation 
accounts for such activities established pursuant to this title. 
Available balances may be merged with funds in the applicable 
established accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund 
for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 302.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094) during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 303.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for the construction of facilities classified as high-hazard 
nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 unless independent oversight 
is conducted by the Office of Enterprise Assessments to ensure the 
project is in compliance with nuclear safety requirements.
    Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to approve critical decision-2 or critical decision-3 under 
Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any successive departmental 
guidance, for construction projects where the total project cost 
exceeds $100,000,000, until a separate independent cost estimate has 
been developed for the project for that critical decision.
    Sec. 305. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any prior 
Act under the heading ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'' may be made 
available to enter into new contracts with, or new agreements for 
Federal assistance to, the Russian Federation.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy may waive the prohibition in subsection 
(a) if the Secretary determines that such activity is in the national 
security interests of the United States. This waiver authority may not 
be delegated.
    (c) A waiver under subsection (b) shall not be effective until 15 
days after the date on which the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, in classified form if 
necessary, a report on the justification for the waiver.
    Sec. 306.  Notwithstanding section 161 of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241), upon a determination by the 
President in this fiscal year that a regional supply shortage of 
refined petroleum product of significant scope and duration exists, 
that a severe increase in the price of refined petroleum product will 
likely result from such shortage, and that a draw down and sale of 
refined petroleum product would assist directly and significantly in 
reducing the adverse impact of such shortage, the Secretary of Energy 
may draw down and sell refined petroleum product from the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve. Proceeds from a sale under this section shall be 
deposited into the SPR Petroleum Account established in section 167 of 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6247), and such 
amounts shall be available for obligation, without fiscal year 
limitation, consistent with that section.
    Sec. 307.  Of the offsetting collections, including unobligated 
balances of such collections, in the ``Department of Energy--Power 
Marketing Administration--Colorado River Basins Power Marketing Fund, 
Western Area Power Administration'', $21,400,000 shall be transferred 
to the ``Department of Interior--Bureau of Reclamation--Upper Colorado 
River Basin Fund'' for the Bureau of Reclamation to carry out 
environmental stewardship and endangered species recovery efforts.
    Sec. 308.  Section 5(b) of Public Law 110-414 is amended by adding 
after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph: ``(3) MERCURY STORAGE 
REVOLVING FUND. There is hereby established the Mercury Storage 
Revolving Fund which shall be available without fiscal year limitation. 
Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, receipts 
received from fees described under this subsection shall be credited to 
this account as offsetting collections, to be available for carrying 
out the long-term management and storage of elemental mercury generated 
within the United States without further appropriation.''.
    Sec. 309.  During fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
notwithstanding any provision of title 5, United States Code, relating 
to classification or rates of pay, the Southeastern Power 
Administration shall pay any power system dispatcher employed by the 
Administration a rate of basic pay and premium pay based on those 
prevailing for similar occupations in the electric power industry. 
Basic pay and premium pay may not be paid under this section to any 
individual during a calendar year so as to result in a total rate in 
excess of the rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
(section 5316 of such title).

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, and for expenses 
necessary for the Federal Co-Chairman and the Alternate on the 
Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the Federal share of 
the administrative expenses of the Commission, including services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $170,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $31,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and to 
carry out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional Authority 
Act of 2000, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                           Denali Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including the 
purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
as necessary and other expenses, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) 
of the Denali Commission Act of 1998:  Provided, That funds shall be 
available for construction projects in an amount not to exceed 80 
percent of total project cost for distressed communities, as defined by 
section 307 of the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title 
III, Public Law 105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, 
title VII, Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not 
to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed communities:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding payment of a 
non-Federal share in connection with a grant-in-aid program, amounts 
under this heading shall be available for the payment of such a non-
Federal share for programs undertaken to carry out the purposes of the 
Commission.

                  Northern Border Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $22,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000), to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such amounts shall be available for 
administrative expenses, notwithstanding section 15751(b) of title 40, 
United States Code.

                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Southeast Crescent Regional 
Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 
40, United States Code, $250,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, $885,236,000, including official representation expenses 
not to exceed $25,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated herein, not more than $9,500,000 may be 
made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the 
Office of the Commission, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
of which, notwithstanding section 201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy 
Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and 
expenditure shall only be approved by a majority vote of the 
Commission:  Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, 
inspection services, and other services and collections estimated at 
$757,589,000 in fiscal year 2020 shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $15,478,000 shall be for activities related to the development of 
regulatory infrastructure for advanced nuclear technologies, and 
$12,492,000 shall be for international activities, except that the 
amounts provided under this proviso shall not be derived from fee 
revenues, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 2214:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues 
received during fiscal year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at not more than $127,647,000:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, 
$10,500,000 shall be for university research and development in areas 
relevant to the Commission's mission, and $5,500,000 shall be for a 
Nuclear Science and Engineering Grant Program that will support 
multiyear projects that do not align with programmatic missions but are 
critical to maintaining the discipline of nuclear science and 
engineering.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$13,314,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections estimated at $10,929,000 in fiscal year 2020 
shall be retained and be available until September 30, 2021, for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues 
received during fiscal year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at not more than $2,385,000:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, 
$1,171,000 shall be for Inspector General services for the Defense 
Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, which shall not be available from fee 
revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical Review 
Board, as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $3,600,000, 
to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    Sec. 401.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply with the 
July 5, 2011, version of Chapter VI of its Internal Commission 
Procedures when responding to Congressional requests for information, 
consistent with Department of Justice guidance for all federal 
agencies.
    Sec. 402. (a) The amounts made available by this title for the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be reprogrammed for any program, 
project, or activity, and the Commission shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days prior to the 
use of any proposed reprogramming that would cause any program funding 
level to increase or decrease by more than $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, during the time period covered by this Act.
    (b)(1) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may waive the notification 
requirement in subsection (a) if compliance with such requirement would 
pose a substantial risk to human health, the environment, welfare, or 
national security.
    (2) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under 
paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 days after 
the date of the activity to which a requirement or restriction would 
otherwise have applied. Such notice shall include an explanation of the 
substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver and 
shall provide a detailed report to the Committees of such waiver and 
changes to funding levels to programs, projects, or activities.
    (c) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (d), the 
amounts made available by this title for ``Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission--Salaries and Expenses'' shall be expended as directed in 
the report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that increases funds or personnel for any 
program, project, or activity for which funds are denied or restricted 
by this Act.
    (e) The Commission shall provide a monthly report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, which includes the 
following for each program, project, or activity, including any prior 
year appropriations--
            (1) total budget authority;
            (2) total unobligated balances; and
            (3) total unliquidated obligations.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action 
on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, 
other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 
U.S.C. 1913.
    Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III of this 
Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by or 
transfer authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations Act 
for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, or any authority 
whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
Government may provide goods or services to another department, agency, 
or instrumentality.
    (b) None of the funds made available for any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government may be transferred to 
accounts funded in title III of this Act, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by or transfer authority provided in this Act or any other 
appropriations Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced 
in the report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, 
or any authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government may provide goods or services to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    (c) The head of any relevant department or agency funded in this 
Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a semiannual report detailing 
the transfer authorities, except for any authority whereby a 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
may provide goods or services to another department, agency, or 
instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months and in the year-to-date. 
This report shall include the amounts transferred and the purposes for 
which they were transferred, and shall not replace or modify existing 
notification requirements for each authority.
    Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of Executive Order No. 12898 of February 11, 1994 
(Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority 
Populations and Low-Income Populations).
    Sec. 504. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 505.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 506.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-83. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 507.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to issue a permit under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act for the discharge of dredged or fill material from a 
project located within Water Conservation Areas 3A and 3B in the State 
of Florida.
    Sec. 508.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize the proposed rule entitled ``Energy Conservation Program: 
Energy Conservation Standards for General Service Lamps'' published by 
the Department of Energy in the Federal Register on February 11, 2019 
(84 Fed. Reg. 3120).
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to reject any application for a grant available under funds 
appropriated by this Act because of the use of the term ``global 
warming'' or the term ``climate change'' in the application.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Energy to make a guarantee under section 1703 of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513) for a project that does 
not avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic 
emissions of greenhouse gases.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize the environmental impact statement for the proposed Pebble 
Project (POA-2017-271).
     This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 19, 2019.

            Attest:

                                             CHERYL L. JOHNSON,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 140

116th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2740

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 10, 2019

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar