[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2099 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2099

                       One Hundred Fourth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
  the fourth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-five


                                 An Act


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   boards, commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1996, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, boards, 
commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration


                        compensation and pensions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 51, 53, 
55, and 61); pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized 
by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and 
burial benefits, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, 
adjusted-service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on 
commercial life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of 
Article IV of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as 
amended, and for other benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 
1312, 1977, and 2106, chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 
540-548; 43 Stat. 122, 123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198); 
$17,649,972,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not 
to exceed $25,180,000 of the amount appropriated shall be reimbursed to 
``General operating expenses'' and ``Medical care'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing those provisions authorized in the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and in the Veterans' Benefits Act of 
1992 (38 U.S.C. chapters 51, 53, and 55), the funding source for which 
is specifically provided as the ``Compensation and pensions'' 
appropriation: Provided further, That such sums as may be earned on an 
actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical 
facilities revolving fund'' to augment the funding of individual 
medical facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as 
authorized by the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. chapter 
55): Provided further, That $12,000,000 previously transferred from 
``Compensation and pensions'' to ``Medical facilities revolving fund'' 
shall be transferred to this heading.


                          Readjustment Benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 
31, 34, 35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61), $1,345,300,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to 
pay any court order, court award or any compromise settlement arising 
from litigation involving the vocational training program authorized by 
section 18 of Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
chapter 19; 70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487), $24,890,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                  Guaranty and Indemnity Program Account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $65,226,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                     Loan Guaranty Program Account


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $52,138,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                      Direct Loan Program Account


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during 1996, within the resources available, not to exceed $300,000 in 
gross obligations for direct loans are authorized for specially adapted 
housing loans (38 U.S.C. chapter 37).
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $459,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


                   Education Loan Fund Program Account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $4,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $195,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


             Vocational Rehabilitation Loans Program Account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $54,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $1,964,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $377,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


           Native American Veteran Housing Loan Program Account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, $205,000, 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

                     Veterans Health Administration


                               medical care

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, 
as authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
equipment; funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for 
beneficiaries receiving care in Department of Veterans Affairs 
facilities; administrative expenses in support of planning, design, 
project management, real property acquisition and disposition, 
construction and renovation of any facility under the jurisdiction or 
for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs; oversight, 
engineering and architectural activities not charged to project cost; 
repairing, altering, improving or providing facilities in the several 
hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); aid to 
State homes as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 1741); and not to exceed 
$8,000,000 to fund cost comparison studies as referred to in 38 U.S.C. 
8110(a)(5); $16,564,000,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $789,000,000 is for the 
equipment and land and structures object classifications only, which 
amount shall not become available for obligation until August 1, 1996, 
and shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
chapter 73), to remain available until September 30, 1997, 
$257,000,000, plus reimbursements.


       medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, architectural, engineering, real 
propertyacquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of any 
facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including site acquisition; engineering and 
architectural activities not charged to project cost; and research and 
development in building construction technology; $63,602,000, plus 
reimbursements.


                    Transitional Housing Loan Program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8, which shall be transferred from the ``General post 
fund'': Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $70,000. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out the direct loan program, $54,000, which shall be 
transferred from the ``General post fund'', as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8.

                      Departmental Administration


                        General Operating Expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of 
overseas employee mail; $848,143,000: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated and any other funds made available from any other source 
for activities funded under this heading, except reimbursements, not to 
exceed $214,109,000 shall be available for General Administration; 
including not to exceed (1) $2,450,000 for personnel compensation and 
benefits and $50,000 for travel in the Office of the Secretary, (2) 
$4,392,000 for personnel compensation and benefits and $75,000 for 
travel in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy and 
Planning, (3) $1,980,000 for personnel compensation and benefits and 
$33,000 for travel in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Affairs, and (4) $3,500,000 for personnel compensation 
and benefits and $100,000 for travel in the Office of Assistant 
Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs: Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 1996, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the number of individuals employed by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs (1) in other than ``career appointee'' positions in the Senior 
Executive Service shall not exceed 6, and (2) in schedule C positions 
shall not exceed 11: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000,000 of 
the amount appropriated shall be available for administrative expenses 
to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs under the Loan 
Guaranty Program Account: Provided further, That funds under this 
heading shall be available to administer the Service Members 
Occupational Conversion and Training Act: Provided further, That the 
$25,500,000 earmarked in Public Law 103-327 for the acquisition of 
automated data processing equipment and services to support the 
modernization program of the Veterans Benefits Administration is 
available for any expense authorized to be funded under this heading: 
Provided further, That none of the funds under this heading (including 
funds referred to in the preceding proviso) may be obligated or 
expended for the acquisition of automated data processing equipment and 
services for Department of Veterans Affairs regional offices to support 
Stage III of the automated data equipment modernization program of the 
Veterans Benefits Administration.


                         National Cemetery System

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery System not otherwise provided for, including uniforms 
or allowances therefor, as authorized by law; cemeterial expenses as 
authorized by law; purchase of three passenger motor vehicles, for use 
in cemeterial operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$72,604,000.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $30,900,000.


                       Construction, Major Projects

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 38, 
United States Code, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
$3,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $136,155,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That except for advance planning of 
projects funded through the advance planning fund and the design of 
projects funded through the design fund, none of these funds shall be 
used for any project which has not been considered and approved by the 
Congress in the budgetary process: Provided further, That funds 
provided in this appropriation for fiscal year 1996, for each approved 
project shall be obligated (1) by the awarding of a construction 
documents contract by September 30, 1996, and (2) by the awarding of a 
construction contract by September 30, 1997: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall promptly report in writing to the Comptroller General 
and to the Committees on Appropriations any approved major construction 
project in which obligations are not incurred within the time 
limitations established above; and the Comptroller General shall review 
the report in accordance with the procedures established by section 
1015 of the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (title X of Public Law 93-
344): Provided further, That no funds from any other account except the 
``Parking revolving fund'', may be obligated for constructing, 
altering, extending, or improving a project which was approved in the 
budget process and funded in this account until one year after 
substantial completion and beneficial occupancy by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs of the project or any part thereof with respect to 
that part only: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading in Public Law 103-327, $7,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``Parking revolving fund''.

                      Construction, Minor Projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
sections 316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 
of title 38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project 
is less than $3,000,000, $190,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, along with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, 
minor projects'' appropriations which are hereby made available for any 
project where the estimated cost is less than $3,000,000: Provided, 
That funds in this account shall be available for (1) repairs to any of 
the nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs which are necessary because of loss or 
damage caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe, and (2) temporary 
measures necessary to prevent or to minimize further loss by such 
causes.


                          Parking Revolving Fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
8109), income from fees collected, to remain available until expended. 
Resources of this fund shall be available for all expenses authorized 
by 38 U.S.C. 8109 except operations and maintenance costs which will be 
funded from ``Medical care''.


        grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist the several States to acquire or construct 
State nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or 
alter existing hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in 
State homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. 8131-8137), $47,397,000, to remain available until expended.


         grants for the construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 2408), 
$1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1998.


                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. Any appropriation for 1996 for ``Compensation and 
pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and 
indemnities'' may be transferred to any other of the mentioned 
appropriations.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for 1996 for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. No part of the appropriations in this Act for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for 
``Construction, major projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'', and 
the ``Parking revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of 
any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 104. No part of the foregoing appropriations shall be 
available for hospitalization or examination of any persons except 
beneficiaries entitled under the laws bestowing such benefits to 
veterans, unless reimbursement of cost is made to the appropriation at 
such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1996 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
shall be available for payment of prior year accrued obligations 
required to be recorded by law against the corresponding prior year 
accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations accounts available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 1996 shall be available to pay prior 
year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Sec. 107. Chapter 19 of title 38, United States Code, is amended as 
follows:
        (1) Section 1920 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, and for the 
        reimbursement of administrative costs under subsection (c)'' 
        before the period at the end of the second sentence; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) For each fiscal year for which this subsection is in 
effect, the Secretary shall, from the National Service Life Insurance 
Fund, reimburse the `General operating expenses' account of the 
Department for the amount of administrative costs determined under 
paragraph (2) for that fiscal year. Such reimbursement shall be made 
from any surplus earnings for that fiscal year that are available for 
dividends on such insurance after claims have been paid and actuarially 
determined reserves have been set aside. However, if the amount of such 
administrative costs exceeds the amount of such surplus earnings, such 
reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such surplus 
earnings.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall determine the administrative costs to the 
Department for a fiscal year for which this subsection is in effect 
which, in the judgment of the Secretary, are properly allocable to the 
provision of National Service Life Insurance (and to the provision of 
any total disability income insurance added to the provision of such 
insurance).
    ``(3) This subsection shall be in effect only with respect to 
fiscal year 1996.''.
        (2) Section 1923 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, and for the 
        reimbursement of administrative costs under subsection (d)'' 
        before the period at the end of the last sentence; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) For each fiscal year for which this subsection is in 
effect, the Secretary shall, from the Veterans' Special Life Insurance 
Fund, reimburse the `General operating expenses' account of the 
Department for the amount of administrative costs determined under 
paragraph (2) for that fiscal year. Such reimbursement shall be made 
from any surplus earnings for that fiscal year that are available for 
dividends on such insurance after claims have been paid and actuarially 
determined reserves have been set aside. However, if the amount of such 
administrative costs exceeds the amount of such surplus earnings, such 
reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such surplus 
earnings.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall determine the administrative costs to the 
Department for a fiscal year for which this subsection is in effect 
which, in the judgment of the Secretary, are properly allocable to the 
provision of Veterans' Special Life Insurance (and to the provision of 
any total disability income insurance added to the provision of such 
insurance).
    ``(3) This subsection shall be in effect only with respect to 
fiscal year 1996.''.
        (3) Section 1955 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, and for the 
        reimbursement of administrative costs under subsection (c)'' 
        before the period at the end of the first sentence; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) For each fiscal year for which this subsection is in 
effect, the Secretary shall, from the United States Government Life 
Insurance Fund, reimburse the `General operating expenses' account of 
the Department for the amount of administrative costs determined under 
paragraph (2) for that fiscal year. Such reimbursement shall be made 
from any surplus earnings for that fiscal year that are available for 
dividends on such insurance after claims have been paid and actuarially 
determined reserves have been set aside. However, if the amount of such 
administrative costs exceeds the amount of such surplus earnings, such 
reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such surplus 
earnings.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall determine the administrative costs to the 
Department for a fiscal year for which this subsection is in effect 
which, in the judgment of the Secretary, are properly allocable to the 
provision of United States Government Life Insurance (and to the 
provision of any total disability income insurance added to the 
provision of such insurance).
    ``(3) This subsection shall be in effect only with respect to 
fiscal year 1996.''.
        (4) Section 1982 is amended by striking out ``The United 
    States'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Except as provided in 
    sections 1920(c), 1923(d), and 1955(c) of this title, the United 
    States''.
    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs is authorized to transfer, without compensation or 
reimbursement, the jurisdiction and control of a parcel of land 
consisting of approximately 6.3 acres, located on the south edge of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical and Regional Office Center, 
Wichita, Kansas, including buildings Nos. 8 and 30 and other 
improvements thereon, to the Secretary of Transportation for the 
purpose of expanding and modernizing United States Highway 54: 
Provided, That if necessary, the exact acreage and legal description of 
the real property transferred shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of 
Transportation shall bear the cost of such survey: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Transportation shall be responsible for all costs 
associated with the transferred land and improvements thereon, and 
compliance with all existing statutes and regulations: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of 
Transportation may require such additional terms and conditions as each 
Secretary considers appropriate to effectuate this transfer of land.
    Sec. 109. During fiscal year 1996, not to exceed $4,500,000 may be 
transferred from ``Medical care'' to ``Medical administration and 
miscellaneous operating expenses''. No transfer may occur until 20 days 
after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides written notice to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


                annual contributions for assisted housing

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 1437), not otherwise provided 
for, $10,155,795,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the total amount provided under this head, $160,000,000 shall 
be for the development or acquisition cost of public housing for Indian 
families, including amounts for housing under the mutual help 
homeownership opportunity program under section 202 of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 1437bb): Provided further, That of the total amount provided 
under this head, $2,500,000,000 shall be for modernization of existing 
public housing projects pursuant to section 14 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
1437l), including up to $20,000,000 for the inspection of public 
housing units, contract expertise, and training and technical 
assistance, directly or indirectly, under grants, contracts, or 
cooperative agreements, to assist in the oversight and management of 
public and Indian housing (whether or not the housing is being 
modernized with assistance under this proviso) or tenant-based 
assistance, including, but not limited to, an annual resident survey, 
data collection and analysis, training and technical assistance by or 
to officials and employees of the Department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents in connection with the public and Indian 
housing program: Provided further, That of the total amount provided 
under this head, $400,000,000 shall be for rental subsidy contracts 
under the section 8 existing housing certificate program and the 
housing voucher program under section 8 of the Act, except that such 
amounts shall be used only for units necessary to provide housing 
assistance for residents to be relocated from existing federally 
subsidized or assisted housing, for replacement housing for units 
demolished or disposed of (including units to be disposed of pursuant 
to a homeownership program under section 5(h) or title III of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937) from the public housing inventory, 
for funds related to litigation settlements, for the conversion of 
section 23 projects to assistance under section 8, for public housing 
agencies to implement allocation plans approved by the Secretary for 
designated housing, for funds to carry out the family unification 
program, and for the relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts 
to combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a request 
from a law enforcement or prosecution agency: Provided further, That of 
the total amount provided under this head, $4,350,862,000 shall be for 
assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437) 
for use in connection with expiring or terminating section 8 subsidy 
contracts, such amounts shall be merged with all remaining obligated 
and unobligated balances heretofore appropriated under the heading 
``Renewal of expiring section 8 subsidy contracts'': Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, assistance reserved 
under the two preceding provisos may be used in connection with any 
provision of Federal law enacted in this Act or after the enactment of 
this Act that authorizes the use of rental assistance amounts in 
connection with such terminated or expired contracts: Provided further, 
That the Secretary may determine not to apply section 8(o)(6)(B) of the 
Act to housing vouchers during fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That 
of the total amount provided under this head, $610,575,000 shall be for 
amendments to section 8 contracts other than contracts for projects 
developed under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended; and 
$261,000,000 shall be for section 8 assistance and rehabilitation 
grants for property disposition: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 1996, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may manage 
and dispose of multifamily properties owned by the Secretary, including 
the provision for grants from the General Insurance Fund (12 U.S.C. 
1735c) for the necessary costs of rehabilitation and other related 
development costs and multifamily mortgages held by the Secretary 
without regard to any other provision of law: Provided further, That 50 
per centum of the amounts of budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 
per centum of the cash amounts associated with such budget authority, 
that are recaptured from projects described in section 1012(a) of the 
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (Public 
Law 100-628, 102 Stat. 3224, 3268) shall be rescinded, or in the case 
of cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section: 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this head, 
$171,000,000 shall be for housing opportunities for persons with AIDS 
under title VIII, subtitle D of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act; and $65,000,000 shall be for the lead-based 
paint hazard reduction program as authorized under sections 1011 and 
1053 of the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 1992: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may make up to $5,000,000 of any 
amount recaptured in this account available for the development of 
performance and financial systems.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $624,000,000, plus 
amounts recaptured from interest reduction payment contracts for 
section 236 projects whose owners prepay their mortgages during fiscal 
year 1996 (which amounts shall be transferred and merged with this 
account), shall be for use in conjunction with properties that are 
eligible for assistance under the Low Income Housing Preservation and 
Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (LIHPRHA) or the Emergency Low-
Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 (ELIHPA): Provided, That prior 
to July 1, 1996, funding to carry out plans of action shall be limited 
to sales of projects to non-profit organizations, tenant-sponsored 
organizations, and other priority purchasers: Provided further, That of 
the amount made available by this paragraph, up to $10,000,000 shall be 
available for preservation technical assistance grants pursuant to 
section 253 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as 
amended: Provided further, That with respect to amounts made available 
by this paragraph, after July 1, 1996, if the Secretary determines that 
the demand for funding may exceed amounts available for such funding, 
the Secretary (1) may determine priorities for distributing available 
funds, including giving priority funding to tenants displaced due to 
mortgage prepayment and to projects that have not yet been funded but 
which have approved plans of action; and (2) may impose a temporary 
moratorium on applications by potential recipients of such funding: 
Provided further, That an owner of eligible low-income housing may 
prepay the mortgage or request voluntary terminaton of a mortgage 
insurance contract, so long as said owner agrees not to raise rents for 
sixty days after such prepayment: Provided further, That an owner of 
eligible low-income housing who has not timely filed a second notice 
under section 216(d) prior to the effective date of this Act may file 
such notice by March 1, 1996: Provided further, That such developments 
have been determined to have preservation equity at least equal to the 
lesser of $5,000 per unit or $500,000 per project or the equivalent of 
eight times the most recently published fair market rent for the area 
in which the project is located as the appropriate unit size for all of 
the units in the eligible project: Provided further, That the Secretary 
may modify the regulatory agreement to permit owners and priority 
purchasers to retain rental income in excess of the basic rental charge 
in projects assisted under section 236 of the National Housing Act, for 
the purpose of preserving the low and moderate income character of the 
housing: Provided further, That the Secretary may give priority to 
funding and processing the following projects provided that the funding 
is obligated not later than August 1, 1996: (1) projects with approved 
plans of action to retain the housing that file a modified plan of 
action no later than July 1, 1996 to transfer the housing; (2) projects 
with approved plans of action that are subject to a repayment or 
settlement agreement that was executed between the owner and the 
Secretary prior to September 1, 1995; (3) projects for which 
submissions were delayed as a result of their location in areas that 
were designated as a Federal disaster area in a Presidential Disaster 
Declaration; and (4) projects whose processing was, in fact or in 
practical effect, suspended, deferred, or interrupted for a period of 
twelve months or more because of differing interpretations, by the 
Secretary and an owner or by the Secretary and a State or local rent 
regulatory agency, concerning the timing of filing eligibility or the 
effect of a presumptively applicable State or local rent control law or 
regulation on the determination of preservation value under section 213 
of LIHPRHA, as amended, if the owner of such project filed notice of 
intent to extend the low-income affordability restrictions of the 
housing, or transfer to a qualified purchaser who would extend such 
restrictions, on or before November 1, 1993: Provided further, That 
eligible low-income housing shall include properties meeting the 
requirements of this paragraph with mortgages that are held by a State 
agency as a result of a sale by the Secretary without insurance, which 
immediately before the sale would have been eligible low-income housing 
under LIHPRHA: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, subject to the availability of appropriated funds, 
each unassisted low-income family residing in the housing on the date 
of prepayment or voluntary termination, and whose rent, as a result of 
a rent increase occurring no later than one year after the date of the 
prepayment, exceeds 30 percent of adjusted income, shall be offered 
tenant-based assistance in accordance with section 8 or any successor 
program, under which the family shall pay no less for rent than it paid 
on such date: Provided further, That any family receiving tenant-based 
assistance under the preceding proviso may elect (1) to remain in the 
unit of the housing and if the rent exceeds the fair market rent or 
payment standard, as applicable, the rent shall be deemed to be the 
applicable standard, so long as the administering public housing agency 
finds that the rent is reasonable in comparison with rents charged for 
comparable unassisted housing units in the market or (2) to move from 
the housing and the rent will be subject to the fair market rent of the 
payment standard, as applicable, under existing program rules and 
procedures: Provided further, That up to $10,000,000 of the amount made 
available by this paragraph may be used at the discretion of the 
Secretary to reimburse owners of eligible properties for which plans of 
action were submitted prior to the effective date of this Act, but were 
not executed for lack of available funds, with such reimbursement 
available only for documented costs directly applicable to the 
preparation of the plan of action as determined by the Secretary,and 
shall be made available on terms and conditions to be established by 
the Secretary: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, effective October 1, 1996, the Secretary shall 
suspend further processing of preservation applications which do not 
have approved plans of action.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $780,190,000 shall be 
for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance, 
and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, for 
supportive housing for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the 
Housing Act of 1959; and $233,168,000 shall be for capital advances, 
including amendments to capital advance contracts, for supportive 
housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act; and for project 
rental assistance, and amendments to contracts for project rental 
assistance, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities as 
authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act: Provided, That the Secretary may designate up to 25 
percent of the amounts earmarked under this paragraph for section 811 
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act for tenant-
based assistance, as authorized under that section, which assistance is 
five-years in duration: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive 
any provision of section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 and section 811 
of the National Affordable Housing Act (including the provisions 
governing the terms and conditions of project rental assistance) that 
the Secretary determines is not necessary to achieve the objectives of 
these programs, or that otherwise impedes the ability to develop, 
operate or administer projects assisted under these programs, and may 
make provision for alternative conditions or terms where appropriate.


     public housing demolition, site revitalization, and replacement 
                             housing grants

    For grants to public housing agencies for the purposes of enabling 
the demolition of obsolete public housing projects or portions thereof, 
the revitalization (where appropriate) of sites (including remaining 
public housing units) on which such projects are located, replacement 
housing which will avoid or lessen concentrations of very low-income 
families, and tenant-based assistance in accordance with section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 for the purpose of providing 
replacement housing and assisting tenants to be displaced by the 
demolition, $280,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall award such 
funds to public housing agencies by a competition which includes among 
other relevant criteria the local and national impact of the proposed 
demolition and revitalization activities and the extent to which the 
public housing agency could undertake such activities without the 
additional assistance to be provided hereunder: Provided further, That 
eligible expenditures hereunder shall be those expenditures eligible 
under section 8 and section 14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437f and l): Provided further, That the Secretary may 
impose such conditions and requirements as the Secretary deems 
appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may require an agency selected to receive 
funding to make arrangements satisfactory to the Secretary for use of 
an entity other than the agency to carry out this program where the 
Secretary determines that such action will help to effectuate the 
purpose of this paragraph: Provided further, That in the event an 
agency selected to receive funding does not proceed expeditiously as 
determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall withdraw any funding 
made available pursuant to this paragraph that has not been obligated 
by the agency and distribute such funds to one or more other eligible 
agencies, or to other entities capable of proceeding expeditiously in 
the same locality with the original program: Provided further, That of 
the foregoing $280,000,000, the Secretary may use up to .67 per centum 
for technical assistance, to be provided directly or indirectly by 
grants, contracts or cooperative agreements, including training and 
cost of necessary travel for participants in such training, by or to 
officials and employees of the Department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents: Provided further, That any replacement 
housing provided with assistance under this head shall be subject to 
section 18(f) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended by 
section 201(b)(2) of this Act.


                          flexible subsidy fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    From the fund established by section 236(g) of the National Housing 
Act, as amended, all uncommitted balances of excess rental charges as 
of September 30, 1995, and any collections during fiscal year 1996 
shall be transferred, as authorized under such section, to the fund 
authorized under section 201(j) of the Housing and Community 
Development Amendments of 1978, as amended.


                        rental housing assistance

                               (rescission)

    The limitation otherwise applicable to the maximum payments that 
may be required in any fiscal year by all contracts entered into under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) is reduced 
in fiscal year 1996 by not more than $2,000,000 in uncommitted balances 
of authorizations provided for this purpose in appropriations Acts: 
Provided, That up to $163,000,000 of recaptured section 236 budget 
authority resulting from the prepayment of mortgages subsidized under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) shall be 
rescinded in fiscal year 1996.


          payments for operation of low-income housing projects

    For payments to public housing agencies and Indian housing 
authorities for operating subsidies for low-income housing projects as 
authorized by section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), $2,800,000,000.


              drug elimination grants for low-income housing

    For grants to public and Indian housing agencies for use in 
eliminating crime in public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
11901-11908, for grants for federally assisted low-income housing 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11909, and for drug information clearinghouse 
services authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11921-11925, $290,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $10,000,000 shall be for grants, 
technical assistance, contracts and other assistance training, program 
assessment, and execution for or on behalf of public housing agencies 
and resident organizations (including the cost of necessary travel for 
participants in such training) and of which $2,500,000 shall be used in 
connection with efforts to combat violent crime in public and assisted 
housing under the Operation Safe Home program administered by the 
Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: 
Provided, That the term ``drug-related crime'', as defined in 42 U.S.C. 
11905(2), shall also include other types of crime as determined by the 
Secretary.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


            Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund Program Account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $3,000,000, as authorized by 
section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 
Stat. 3739): Provided, That such costs, including the costs of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $36,900,000.

                          Homeless Assistance


                        Homeless Assistance Grants

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act (Public Law 100-77), as amended); the supportive housing program 
(as authorized under subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 
moderate rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized 
under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist 
homeless individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act; and the shelter plus care program (as 
authorized under subtitle F of title IV of such Act), $823,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for carrying 
out a community development grants program as authorized by title I of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 5301), $4,600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
1998: Provided, That $50,000,000 shall be available for grants to 
Indian tribes pursuant to section 106(a)(1) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301), 
$2,000,000 shall be available as a grant to the Housing Assistance 
Council, $1,000,000 shall be available as a grant to the National 
American Indian Housing Council, and $27,000,000 shall be available for 
``special purposegrants'' pursuant to section 107 of such Act: Provided 
further, That not to exceed 20 per centum of any grant made with funds 
appropriated herein (other than a grant made available under the 
preceding proviso to the Housing Assistance Council or the National 
American Indian Housing Council, or a grant using funds under section 
107(b)(3) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974) shall 
be expended for ``Planning and Management Development'' and 
``Administration'' as defined in regulations promulgated by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development: Provided further, That 
section 105(a)(25) of such Act, as added by section 907(b)(1) of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, shall continue to be 
effective after September 30, 1995, notwithstanding section 907(b)(2) 
of such Act: Provided further, That section 916 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 1996, notwithstanding section 916(f) of that Act.
    Of the amount provided under this heading, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may use up to $53,000,000 for grants to public 
housing agencies (including Indian housing authorities), nonprofit 
corporations, and other appropriate entities for a supportive services 
program to assist residents of public and assisted housing, former 
residents of such housing receiving tenant-based assistance under 
section 8 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), and other low-income families 
and individuals to become self-sufficient: Provided, That the program 
shall provide supportive services, principally for the benefit of 
public housing residents, to the elderly and the disabled, and to 
families with children where the head of the household would benefit 
from the receipt of supportive services and is working, seeking work, 
or is preparing for work by participating in job training or 
educational programs: Provided further, That the supportive services 
shall include congregate services for the elderly and disabled, service 
coordinators, and coordinated educational, training, and other 
supportive services, including academic skills training, job search 
assistance, assistance related to retaining employment, vocational and 
entrepreneurship development and support programs, transportation, and 
child care: Provided further, That the Secretary shall require 
applicants to demonstrate firm commitments of funding or services from 
other sources: Provided further, That the Secretary shall select public 
and Indian housing agencies to receive assistance under this head on a 
competitive basis, taking into account the quality of the proposed 
program (including any innovative approaches), the extent of the 
proposed coordination of supportive services, the extent of commitments 
of funding or services from other sources, the extent to which the 
proposed program includes reasonably achievable, quantifiable goals for 
measuring performance under the program over a three-year period, the 
extent of success an agency has had in carrying out other comparable 
initiatives, and other appropriate criteria established by the 
Secretary.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $12,000,000 shall be available for 
contracts, grants, and other assistance, other than loans, not 
otherwise provided for, for providing counseling and advice to tenants 
and homeowners both current and prospective, with respect to property 
maintenance, financial management, and such other matters as may be 
appropriate to assist them in improving their housing conditions and 
meeting the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership, including 
provisions for training and for support of voluntary agencies and 
services as authorized by section 106 of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968, as amended, notwithstanding section 106(c)(9) 
and section 106(d)(13) of such Act.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000,000 shall be available for the 
tenant opportunity program.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $20,000,000 shall be available for 
youthbuild program activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, and 
such activities shall be an eligible activity with respect to any funds 
made available under this heading.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $31,750,000, as authorized by 
section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,500,000,000: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may make guarantees not to exceed the 
immediately foregoing amount notwithstanding the aggregate limitation 
on guarantees set forth in section 108(k) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the guaranteed loan program, $675,000 which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for departmental 
salaries and expenses.
    The amount made available for fiscal year 1995 for a special 
purpose grant for the renovation of the central terminal in Buffalo, 
New York, shall be made available for the central terminal and for 
other public facilities in Buffalo, New York.

                    Policy Development and Research


                         research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $34,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1997.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity


                         fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and for contracts 
with qualified fair housing enforcement organizations, as authorized by 
section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as 
amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.

                     Management and Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative and nonadministrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided 
for, including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $962,558,000, of which $532,782,000 shall be 
provided from the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, 
and $9,101,000 shall be provided from funds of the Government National 
Mortgage Association, and $675,000 shall be provided from the Community 
Development Grants Program account.


                       Office of Inspector General

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $47,850,000, of which $11,283,000 shall be transferred from 
the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight


                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety 
and Soundness Act of 1992, $14,895,000, to remain available until 
expended, from the Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Fund: Provided, 
That such amounts shall be collected by the Director as authorized by 
section 1316 (a) and (b) of such Act, and deposited in the Fund under 
section 1316(f) of such Act.

                     Federal Housing Administration


              fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                      (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 1996, commitments to guarantee loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed a loan principal of $110,000,000,000: 
Provided, That during fiscal year 1996, the Secretary shall sell 
assigned mortgage notes having an unpaid principal balance of up to 
$4,000,000,000, which notes were originally insured under section 
203(b) of the National Housing Act: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may use any negative subsidy amounts from the sale of such 
assigned mortgage notes during fiscal year 1996 for the disposition of 
properties or notes under this heading.
    During fiscal year 1996, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $200,000,000: Provided, That the foregoing 
amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with sales of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under section 203 of such Act.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $341,595,000, to be derived from the FHA-
mutual mortgage insurance guaranteed loans receipt account, of which 
not to exceed $334,483,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation 
for departmental salaries and expenses; and of which not to exceed 
$7,112,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

             fha--general and special risk program account


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), 
including the cost of modifying such loans, $85,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal any part of which is to be guaranteed of not to exceed 
$17,400,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 1996, the 
Secretary shall sell assigned notes having an unpaid principal balance 
of up to $4,000,000,000, which notes were originally obligations of the 
funds established under sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing 
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary may use any negative subsidy 
amounts from the sale of such assigned mortgage notes during fiscal 
year 1996, in addition to amounts otherwise provided, for the 
disposition of properties or notes under this heading (including the 
credit subsidy for the guarantee of loans or the reduction of positive 
credit subsidy amounts that would otherwise be required for the sale of 
such properties or notes), and for any other purpose under this 
heading: Provided further, That any amounts made available in any prior 
appropriation Act for the cost (as such term is defined in section 502 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans that are 
obligations of the funds established under section 238 or 519 of the 
National Housing Act that have not been obligated or that are 
deobligated shall be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the making of such guarantees and shall 
remain available until expended, notwithstanding the expiration of any 
period of availability otherwise applicable to such amounts.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238(a), and 519(a) of the 
National Housing Act, shall not exceed $120,000,000; of which not to 
exceed $100,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with 
the sale of multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and 
formerly insured under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection 
with the sale of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary 
and formerly insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $202,470,000, of which 
$198,299,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for departmental 
salaries and expenses; and of which $4,171,000 shall be transferred to 
the appropriation for the Office of Inspector General.

                Government National Mortgage Association


     guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program 
                                account

                       (includes transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 1996, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $110,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $9,101,000, to be derived from the 
GNMA--guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $9,101,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for departmental salaries and expenses.

                       administrative provisions


                      (including transfer of funds)


         extend administrative provisions from the rescission act

    Sec. 201. (a) Public and Indian Housing Modernization.--
        (1) Expansion of use of modernization funding.--Subsection 
    14(q) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended to read 
    as follows:
    ``(q)(1) In addition to the purposes enumerated in subsections (a) 
and (b), a public housing agency may use modernization assistance 
provided under section 14, and development assistance provided under 
section 5(a) that was not allocated, as determined by the Secretary, 
for priority replacement housing, for any eligible activity authorized 
by this section, by section 5, or by applicable Appropriations Acts for 
a public housing agency, including the demolition, rehabilitation, 
revitalization, and replacement of existing units and projects and, for 
up to 10 percent of its allocation of such funds in any fiscal year, 
for any operating subsidy purpose authorized in section 9. Except for 
assistance used for operating subsidy purposes under the preceding 
sentence, assistance provided to a public housing agency under this 
section shall principally be used for the physical improvement or 
replacement of public housing and for associated management 
improvements, except as otherwise approved by the Secretary. Public 
housing units assisted under this paragraph shall be eligible for 
operating subsidies, unless the Secretary determines that such units or 
projects have not received sufficient assistance under this Act or do 
not meet other requirements of this Act.
    ``(2) A public housing agency may provide assistance to 
developments that include units for other than very low-income families 
(`mixed income developments'), in the form of a grant, loan, operating 
assistance, or other form of investment which may be made to--
        ``(A) a partnership, a limited liability company, or other 
    legal entity in which the public housing agency or its affiliate is 
    a general partner, managing member, or otherwise participates in 
    the activities of such entity; or
        ``(B) any entity which grants to the public housing agency the 
    option to purchase the development within 20 years after initial 
    occupancy in accordance with section 42(i)(7) of the Internal 
    Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Units shall be made available in 
    such developments for periods of not less than 20 years, by master 
    contract or by individual lease, for occupancy by low-income 
    families referred from time to time by the public housing agency. 
    The number of such units shall be:
            ``(i) in the same proportion to the total number of units 
        in such development that the total financial commitment 
        provided by the public housing agency bears to the value of the 
        total financial commitment in the development, or
            ``(ii) not be less than the number of units that could have 
        been developed under the conventional public housing program 
        with the assistance involved, or
            ``(iii) as may otherwise be approved by the Secretary.
    ``(3) A mixed income development may elect to have all units 
subject only to the applicable local real estate taxes, notwithstanding 
that the low-income units assisted by public housing funds would 
otherwise be subject to section 6(d) of the Housing Act of 1937.
    ``(4) If an entity that owns or operates a mixed-income project 
under this subsection enters into a contract with a public housing 
agency, the terms of which obligate the entity to operate and maintain 
a specified number of units in the project as public housing units in 
accordance with the requirements of this Act for the period required by 
law, such contractual terms may provide that, if, as a result of a 
reduction in appropriations under section 9, or any other change in 
applicable law, the public housing agency is unable to fulfill its 
contractual obligations with respect to those public housing units, 
that entity may deviate, under procedures and requirements developed 
through regulations by the Secretary, from otherwise applicable 
restrictions under this Act regarding rents, income eligibility, and 
other areas of public housing management with respect to a portion or 
all of those public housing units, to the extent necessary to preserve 
the viability of those units while maintaining the low-income character 
of the units, to the maximum extent practicable.''.
        (2) Applicability.--Section 14(q) of the United States Housing 
    Act of 1937,as amended by subsection (a) of this section, shall be 
effective only with respect to assistance provided from funds made 
available for fiscal year 1996 or any preceding fiscal year.
        (3) Applicability to IHAs.--In accordance with section 
    201(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, the amendment 
    made by this subsection shall apply to public housing developed or 
    operated pursuant to a contract between the Secretary of Housing 
    and Urban Development and an Indian housing authority.
    (b) One-for-One Replacement of Public and Indian Housing.--
        (1) Extended authority.--Section 1002(d) of Public Law 104-19 
    is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be effective for 
applications for the demolition, disposition, or conversion to 
homeownership of public housing approved by the Secretary, and other 
consolidation and relocation activities of public housing agencies 
undertaken, on, before, or after September 30, 1995 and before 
September 30, 1996.''.
        (2) Section 18(f) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
``No one may rely on the preceding sentence as the basis for 
reconsidering a final order of a court issued, or a settlement approved 
by, a court.''.
        (3) Applicability.--In accordance with section 201(b)(2) of the 
    United States Housing Act of 1937, the amendments made by this 
    subsection and by sections 1002 (a), (b), and (c) of Public Law 
    104-19 shall apply to public housing developed or operated pursuant 
    to a contract between the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
    Development and an Indian housing authority.


       public and assisted housing rents, income adjustments, and 
                              preferences

    Sec. 202. (a) Minimum Rents.--Notwithstanding sections 3(a) and 
8(o)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, effective 
for fiscal year 1996 and no later than October 30, 1995--
        (1) public housing agencies shall require each family who is 
    assisted under the certificate or moderate rehabilitation program 
    under section 8 of such Act to pay a minimum monthly rent of not 
    less than $25, and may require a minimum monthly rent of up to $50;
        (2) public housing agencies shall reduce the monthly assistance 
    payment on behalf of each family who is assisted under the voucher 
    program under section 8 of such Act so that the family pays a 
    minimum monthly rent of not less than $25, and may require a 
    minimum monthly rent of up to $50;
        (3) with respect to housing assisted under other programs for 
    rental assistance under section 8 of such Act, the Secretary shall 
    require each family who is assisted under such program to pay a 
    minimum monthly rent of not less than $25 for the unit, and may 
    require a minimum monthly rent of up to $50; and
        (4) public housing agencies shall require each family who is 
    assisted under the public housing program (including public housing 
    for Indian families) of such Act to pay a minimum monthly rent of 
    not less than $25, and may require a minimum monthly rent of up to 
    $50.
    (b) Establishment of Ceiling Rents.--
        (1) Section 3(a)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
    amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a public housing agency 
    may--
            ``(A) adopt ceiling rents that reflect the reasonable 
        market value of the housing, but that are not less than the 
        monthly costs--
                ``(i) to operate the housing of the agency; and
                ``(ii) to make a deposit to a replacement reserve (in 
            the sole discretion of the public housing agency); and
            ``(B) allow families to pay ceiling rents referred to in 
        subparagraph (A), unless, with respect to any family, the 
        ceiling rent established under this paragraph would exceed the 
        amount payable as rent by that family under paragraph (1).''.
        (2) Regulations.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall, by regulation, after 
        notice and an opportunity for public comment, establish such 
        requirements as may be necessary to carry out section 
        3(a)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended 
        by paragraph (1).
            (B) Transition rule.--Prior to the issuance of final 
        regulations under paragraph (1), a public housing agency may 
        implement ceiling rents, which shall be not less than the 
        monthly costs to operate the housing of the agency and--
                (i) determined in accordance with section 3(a)(2)(A) of 
            the United States Housing Act of 1937, as that section 
            existed on the day before enactment of this Act;
                (ii) equal to the 95th percentile of the rent paid for 
            a unit of comparable size by tenants in the same public 
            housing project or a group of comparable projects totaling 
            50 units or more; or
                (iii) equal to the fair market rent for the area in 
            which the unit is located.
    (c) Definition of Adjusted Income.--Section 3(b)(5) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
        (1) at the end of subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'';
        (2) at the end of subparagraph (G), by striking the period and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:
            ``(H) for public housing, any other adjustments to earned 
        income established by the public housing agency. If a public 
        housing agency adopts other adjustments to income pursuant to 
        subparagraph (H), the Secretary shall not take into account any 
        reduction of or increase in the public housing agency's per 
        unit dwelling rental income resulting from those adjustments 
        when calculating the contributions under section 9 for the 
        public housing agency for the operation of the public 
        housing.''.
    (d) Repeal of Federal Preferences.--
        (1) Public housing.--Section 6(c)(4)(A) of the United States 
    Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437d(c)(4)(A)) is amended to read 
    as follows:
            ``(A) the establishment, after public notice and an 
        opportunity for public comment, of a written system of 
        preferences for admission to public housing, if any, that is 
        not inconsistent with the comprehensive housing affordability 
        strategy under title I of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act;''.
        (2) Section 8 existing and moderate rehabilitation.--Section 
    8(d)(1)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
    1437f(d)(1)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(A) the selection of tenants shall be the function of the 
        owner, subject to the provisions of the annual contributions 
        contract between the Secretary and the agency, except that for 
        the certificate and moderate rehabilitation programs only, for 
        the purpose of selecting families to be assisted, the public 
        housing agency may establish, after public notice and an 
        opportunity for public comment, a written system of preferences 
        for selection that is not inconsistent with the comprehensive 
        housing affordability strategy under title I of the Cranston-
        Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act;''.
        (3) Section 8 voucher program.--Section 8(o)(3)(B) of the 
    United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(3)(B)) is 
    amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) For the purpose of selecting families to be assisted 
        under this subsection, the public housing agency may establish, 
        after public notice and an opportunity for public comment, a 
        written system of preferences for selection that is not 
        inconsistent with the comprehensive housing affordability 
        strategy under title I of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act.''.
        (4) Section 8 new construction and substantial 
    rehabilitation.--
            (A) Repeal.--Section 545(c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
        National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is 
        amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) [Reserved.]''.
            (B) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, no Federal tenant selection preferences under the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 shall apply with respect to--
                (i) housing constructed or substantially rehabilitated 
            pursuant to assistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of 
            the United States Housing Act of 1937 (as such section 
            existed on the day before October 1, 1983); or
                (ii) projects financed under section 202 of the Housing 
            Act of 1959 (as such section existed on the day before the 
            date of enactment of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
            Affordable Housing Act).
        (5) Rent supplements.--Section 101(k) of the Housing and Urban 
    Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s(k)) is amended to read as 
    follows:
    ``(k) [Reserved.]''.
        (6) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) United states housing act of 1937.--The United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) is amended--
                (i) in section 6(o), by striking ``preference rules 
            specified in'' and inserting ``written system of 
            preferences for selection established pursuant to'';
                (ii) in the second sentence of section 7(a)(2), by 
            striking ``according to the preferences for occupancy 
            under'' and inserting ``in accordance with the written 
            system of preferences for selection established pursuant 
            to'';
                (iii) in section 8(d)(2)(A), by striking the last 
            sentence;
                (iv) in section 8(d)(2)(H), by striking 
            ``Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1)(A)(i), an'' and 
            inserting ``An'';
                (v) in section 16(c), in the second sentence, by 
            striking ``the system of preferences established by the 
            agency pursuant to section 6(c)(4)(A)(ii)'' and inserting 
            ``the written system of preferences for selection 
            established by the public housing agency pursuant to 
            section 6(c)(4)(A)''; and
                (vi) in section 24(e)--

                    (I) by striking ``(e) Exceptions'' and all that 
                follows through ``The Secretary may'' and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(e) Exception to General Program Requirements.--The Secretary 
may''; and

                    (II) by striking paragraph (2).

            (B) Cranston-gonzalez national affordable housing act.--
        Section 522(f)(6)(B) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704 et seq.) is amended by 
        striking ``any preferences for such assistance under section 
        8(d)(1)(A)(i)'' and inserting ``the written system of 
        preferences for selection established pursuant to section 
        8(d)(1)(A)''.
            (C) Housing and community development act of 1992.--Section 
        655 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 
        U.S.C. 13615) is amended by striking ``the preferences'' and 
        all that follows up to the period at the end and inserting 
        ``any preferences''.
            (D) References in other law.--Any reference in any Federal 
        law other than any provision of any law amended by paragraphs 
        (1) through (5) of this subsection to the preferences for 
        assistance under section 6(c)(4)(A)(i), 8(d)(1)(A)(i), or 
        8(o)(3)(B) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (as such 
        sections existed on the day before the date of enactment of 
        this Act) shall be considered to refer to the written system of 
        preferences for selection established pursuant to section 
        6(c)(4)(A), 8(d)(1)(A), or 8(o)(3)(B), respectively, of the 
        United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended by this section.
    (e) Applicability.--In accordance with section 201(b)(2) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, the amendments made by subsections 
(a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of this section shall also apply to public 
housing developed or operated pursuant to a contract between the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and an Indian housing 
authority.
    (f) This section shall be effective upon the enactment of this Act 
and only for fiscal year 1996.


             conversion of certain public housing to vouchers

    Sec. 203. (a) Identification of Units.--Each public housing agency 
shall identify any public housing developments--
        (1) that are on the same or contiguous sites;
        (2) that total more than--
            (A) 300 dwelling units; or
            (B) in the case of high-rise family buildings or 
        substantially vacant buildings; 300 dwelling units;
        (3) that have a vacancy rate of at least 10 percent for 
    dwelling units not in funded, on schedule modernization programs;
        (4) identified as distressed housing that the public housing 
    agency cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing 
    through reasonable revitalization, density reduction, or 
    achievement of a broader range of household income; and
        (5) for which the estimated cost of continued operation and 
    modernization of the developments as public housing exceeds the 
    cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8 of the 
    United States Housing Act of 1937 for all families in occupancy, 
    based on appropriate indicators of cost (such as the percentage of 
    total development cost required for modernization).
    (b) Implementation and Enforcement.--
        (1) Standards for implementation.--The Secretary shall 
    establish standards to permit implementation of this section in 
    fiscal year 1996.
        (2) Consultation.--Each public housing agency shall consult 
    with the applicable public housing tenants and the unit of general 
    local government in identifying any public housing developments 
    under subsection (a).
        (3) Failure of phas to comply with subsection (a).--Where the 
    Secretary determines that--
            (A) a public housing agency has failed under subsection (a) 
        to identify public housing developments for removal from the 
        inventory of the agency in a timely manner;
            (B) a public housing agency has failed to identify one or 
        more public housing developments which the Secretary determines 
        should have been identified under subsection (a); or
            (C) one or more of the developments identified by the 
        public housing agency pursuant to subsection (a) should not, in 
        the determination of the Secretary, have been identified under 
        that subsection;
    the Secretary may designate the developments to be removed from the 
    inventory of the public housing agency pursuant to this section.
    (c) Removal of Units From the Inventories of Public Housing 
Agencies.--
        (1) Each public housing agency shall develop and carry out a 
    plan in conjunction with the Secretary for the removal of public 
    housing units identified under subsection (a) or subsection (b)(3), 
    over a period of up to five years, from the inventory of the public 
    housing agency and the annual contributions contract. The plan 
    shall be approved by the relevant local official as not 
    inconsistent with the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy 
    under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, 
    including a description of any disposition and demolition plan for 
    the public housing units.
        (2) The Secretary may extend the deadline in paragraph (1) for 
    up to an additional five years where the Secretary makes a 
    determination that the deadline is impracticable.
        (3) The Secretary shall take appropriate actions to ensure 
    removal of developments identified under subsection (a) or 
    subsection (b)(3) from the inventory of a public housing agency, if 
    the public housing agency fails to adequately develop a plan under 
    paragraph (1), or fails to adequately implement such plan in 
    accordance with the terms of the plan.
        (4) To the extent approved in appropriations Acts, the 
    Secretary may establish requirements and provide funding under the 
    Urban Revitalization Demonstration program for demolition and 
    disposition of public housing under this section.
        (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a 
    development is removed from the inventory of a public housing 
    agency and the annual contributions contract pursuant to paragraph 
    (1), the Secretary may authorize or direct the transfer of--
            (A) in the case of an agency receiving assistance under the 
        comprehensive improvement assistance program, any amounts 
        obligated by the Secretary for the modernization of such 
        development pursuant to section 14 of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937;
            (B) in the case of an agency receiving public and Indian 
        housing modernization assistance by formula pursuant to section 
        14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, any amounts 
        provided to the agency which are attributable pursuant to the 
        formula for allocating such assistance to the development 
        removed from the inventory of that agency; and
            (C) in the case of an agency receiving assistance for the 
        major reconstruction of obsolete projects, any amounts 
        obligated by the Secretary for the major reconstruction of the 
        development pursuant to section 5 of such Act,
    to the tenant-based assistance program or appropriate site 
    revitalization of such agency.
        (6) Cessation of unnecessary spending.--Notwithstanding any 
    other provision of law, if, in the determination of the Secretary, 
    a development meets or is likely to meet the criteria set forth in 
    subsection (a), the Secretary may direct the public housing agency 
    to cease additional spending in connection with the development, 
    except to the extent that additional spending is necessary to 
    ensure decent, safe, and sanitary housing until the Secretary 
    determines or approves an appropriate course of action with respect 
    to such development under this section.
    (d) Conversion to Tenant-Based Assistance.--
        (1) The Secretary shall make authority available to a public 
    housing agency to provide tenant-based assistance pursuant to 
    section 8 to families residing in any development that is removed 
    from the inventory of the public housing agency and the annual 
    contributions contract pursuant to subsection (b).
        (2) Each conversion plan under subsection (c) shall--
            (A) require the agency to notify families residing in the 
        development, consistent with any guidelines issued by the 
        Secretary governing such notifications, that the development 
        shall be removed from the inventory of the public housing 
        agency and the families shall receive tenant-based or project-
        based assistance, and to provide any necessary counseling for 
        families; and
            (B) ensure that all tenants affected by a determination 
        under this section that a development shall be removed from the 
        inventory of a public housing agency shall be offered tenant-
        based or project-based assistance and shall be relocated, as 
        necessary, to other decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable 
        housing which is, to the maximum extent practicable, housing of 
        their choice.
    (e) In General.--
        (1) The Secretary may require a public housing agency to 
    provide such information as the Secretary considers necessary for 
    the administration of this section.
        (2) As used in this section, the term ``development'' shall 
    refer to a project or projects, or to portions of a project or 
    projects, as appropriate.
        (3) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 shall 
    not apply to the demolition of developments removed from the 
    inventory of the public housing agency under this section.

             streamlining section 8 tenant-based assistance

    Sec. 204. (a) ``Take-One, Take-All''.--Section 8(t) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 is hereby repealed.
    (b) Exemption From Notice Requirements for the Cer- tificate and 
Voucher Programs.--Section 8(c) of such Act is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (8), by inserting after ``section'' the 
    following: ``(other than a contract for assistance under the 
    certificate or voucher program)''; and
        (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (9), by striking ``(but 
    not less than 90 days in the case of housing certificates or 
    vouchers under subsection (b) or (o))'' and inserting ``, other 
    than a contract under the certificate or voucher program''.
    (c) Endless Lease.--Section 8(d)(1)(B) of such Act is amended--
        (1) in clause (ii), by inserting ``during the term of the 
    lease,'' after ``(ii)''; and
        (2) in clause (iii), by striking ``provide that'' and inserting 
    ``during the term of the lease,''.
    (d) Applicability.--The provisions of this section shall be 
effective for fiscal year 1996 only.


    section 8 fair market rentals, administrative fees, and delay in 
                               reissuance

    Sec. 205. (a) Fair Market Rentals.--The Secretary shall establish 
fair market rentals for purposes of section 8(c)(1) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, that shall be effective for 
fiscal year 1996 and shall be based on the 40th percentile rent of 
rental distributions of standard quality rental housing units. In 
establishing such fair market rentals, the Secretary shall consider 
only the rents for dwelling units occupied by recent movers and may not 
consider the rents for public housing dwelling units or newly 
constructed rental dwelling units.
    (b) Administrative Fees.--Notwithstanding sections 8(q) (1) and (4) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937, for fiscal year 1996, the fee 
for each month for which a dwelling unit is covered by an assistance 
contract under the certificate, voucher, or moderate rehabilitation 
program under section 8 of such Act shall be equal to the monthly fee 
payable for fiscal year 1995: Provided, That this subsection shall be 
applicable to all amounts made avail- able for such fees during fiscal 
year 1996, as if in effect on October 1, 1995.
    (c) Delay Reissuance of Vouchers and Certificates.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, a public housing agency administering 
certificate or voucher assistance provided under subsection (b) or (o) 
of section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, 
shall delay for 3 months, the use of any amounts of such assistance (or 
the certificate or voucher representing assistance amounts) made 
available by the termination during fiscal year 1996 of such assistance 
on behalf of any family for any reason, but not later than October 1, 
1996; with the exception of any certificates assigned or committed to 
project-based assistance as permitted otherwise by the Act, 
accomplished prior to the effective date of this Act.


          public housing/section 8 moving to work demonstration

    Sec. 206. (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this demonstration is to 
give public housing agencies and the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development the flexibility to design and test various approaches for 
providing and administering housing assistance that: reduce cost and 
achieve greater cost effectiveness in Federal expenditures; give 
incentives to families with children where the head of household is 
working, seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job 
training, educational programs, or programs that assist people to 
obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; and increase 
housing choices for low-income families.
    (b) Program Authority.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall conduct a demonstration program under this section 
beginning in fiscal year 1996 under which up to 30 public housing 
agencies (including Indian housing authorities) administering the 
public or Indian housing program and the section 8 housing assistance 
payments program, administering a total number of public housing units 
not in excess of 25,000, may be selected by the Secretary to 
participate. The Secretary shall provide training and technical 
assistance during the demonstration and conduct detailed evaluations of 
up to 15 such agencies in an effort to identify replicable program 
models promoting the purpose of the demonstration. Under the 
demonstration, notwithstanding any provision of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 except as provided in subsection (e), an agency may 
combine operating assistance provided under section 9 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937, modernization assistance provided under 
section 14 of suchAct, and assistance provided under section 8 of such 
Act for the certificate and voucher programs, to provide housing 
assistance for low-income families, as defined in section 3(b)(2) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937, and services to facilitate the 
transition to work on such terms and conditions as the agency may 
propose and the Secretary may approve.
    (c) Application.--An application to participate in the 
demonstration--
        (1) shall request authority to combine assistance under 
    sections 8, 9, and 14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
        (2) shall be submitted only after the public housing agency 
    provides for citizen participation through a public hearing and, if 
    appropriate, other means;
        (3) shall include a plan developed by the agency that takes 
    into account comments from the public hearing and any other public 
    comments on the proposed program, and comments from current and 
    prospective residents who would be affected, and that includes 
    criteria for--
            (A) families to be assisted, which shall require that at 
        least 75 percent of the families assisted by participating 
        demonstration public housing authorities shall be very low-
        income families, as defined in section 3(b)(2) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937, and at least 50 percent of the 
        families selected shall have incomes that do not exceed 30 
        percent of the median family income for the area, as determined 
        by the Secretary with adjustments for smaller and larger 
        families, except that the Secretary may establish income 
        ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the median for the 
        area on the basis of the Secretary's findings that such 
        variations are necessary because of unusually high or low 
        family income;
            (B) establishing a reasonable rent policy, which shall be 
        designed to encourage employment and self-sufficiency by 
        participating families, consistent with the purpose of this 
        demonstration, such as by excluding some or all of a family's 
        earned income for purposes of determining rent;
            (C) continuing to assist substantially the same total 
        number of eligible low-income families as would have been 
        served had the amounts not been combined;
            (D) maintaining a comparable mix of families (by family 
        size) as would have been provided had the amounts not been used 
        under the demonstration; and
            (E) assuring that housing assisted under the demonstration 
        program meets housing quality standards established or approved 
        by the Secretary; and
        (4) may request assistance for training and technical 
    assistance to assist with design of the demonstration and to 
    participate in a detailed evaluation.
    (d) Selection.--In selecting among applications, the Secretary 
shall take into account the potential of each agency to plan and carry 
out a program under the demonstration, the relative performance by an 
agency under the public housing management assessment program under 
section 6(j) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and other 
appropriate factors as determined by the Secretary.
    (e) Applicability of 1937 Act Provisions.--
        (1) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 shall 
    continue to apply to public housing notwithstanding any use of the 
    housing under this demonstration.
        (2) Section 12 of such Act shall apply to housing assisted 
    under the demonstration, other than housing assisted solely due to 
    occupancy by families receiving tenant-based assistance.
    (f) Effect on Section 8, Operating Subsidies, and Comprehensive 
Grant Program Allocations.--The amount of assistance received under 
section 8, section 9, or pursuant to section 14 by a public housing 
agency participating in the demonstration under this part shall not be 
diminished by its participation.
    (g) Records, Reports, and Audits.--
        (1) Keeping of records.--Each agency shall keep such records as 
    the Secretary may prescribe as reasonably necessary to disclose the 
    amounts and the disposition of amounts under this demonstration, to 
    ensure compliance with the requirements of this section, and to 
    measure performance.
        (2) Reports.--Each agency shall submit to the Secretary a 
    report, or series of reports, in a form and at a time specified by 
    the Secretary. Each report shall--
            (A) document the use of funds made available under this 
        section;
            (B) provide such data as the Secretary may request to 
        assist the Secretary in assessing the demonstration; and
            (C) describe and analyze the effect of assisted activities 
        in addressing the objectives of this part.
        (3) Access to documents by the secretary.--The Secretary shall 
    have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, 
    documents, papers, and records that are pertinent to assistance in 
    connection with, and the requirements of, this section.
        (4) Access to documents by the comptroller general.--The 
    Comptroller General of the United States, or any of the duly 
    authorized representatives of the Comptroller General, shall have 
    access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, 
    documents, papers, and records that are pertinent to assistance in 
    connection with, and the requirements of, this section.
    (h) Evaluation and Report.--
        (1) Consultation with pha and family representatives.--In 
    making assessments throughout the demonstration, the Secretary 
    shall consult with representatives of public housing agencies and 
    residents.
        (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 180 days after the end 
    of the third year of the demonstration, the Secretary shall submit 
    to the Congress a report evaluating the programs carried out under 
    the demonstration. The report shall also include findings and 
    recommendations for any appropriate legislative action.
    (i) Funding for Technical Assistance and Evaluation.--From amounts 
appropriated for assistance under section 14 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 for fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998, the 
Secretary may use up to a total of $5,000,000--
        (1) to provide, directly or by contract, training and technical 
    assistance--
            (A) to public housing agencies that express an interest to 
        apply for training and technical assistance pursuant to 
        subsection (c)(4), to assist them in designing programs to be 
        proposed for the demonstration; and
            (B) to up to 10 agencies selected to receive training and 
        technical assistance pursuant to subsection (c)(4), to assist 
        them in implementing the approved program; and
        (2) to conduct detailed evaluations of the activities of the 
    public housing agencies under paragraph (1)(B), directly or by 
    contract.


             repeal of provisions regarding income disregards

    Sec. 207. (a) Maximum Annual Limitation on Rent Increases Resulting 
From Employment.--Section 957 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act is hereby repealed, retroactive to November 28, 
1990, and shall be of no effect.
    (b) Economic Independence.--Section 923 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1992 is hereby repealed, retroactive to 
October 28, 1992, and shall be of no effect.


             extension of multifamily housing finance program

    Sec. 208. (a) The first sentence of section 542(b)(5) of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1707 note) is 
amended by striking ``on not more than 15,000 units over fiscal years 
1993 and 1994'' and inserting ``on not more than 7,500 units during 
fiscal year 1996''.
    (b) The first sentence of section 542(c)(4) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1707 note) is amended by 
striking ``on not to exceed 30,000 units over fiscal years 1993, 1994, 
and 1995'' and inserting ``on not more than 10,000 units during fiscal 
year 1996''.


         foreclosure of hud-held mortgages through third parties

    Sec. 209. During fiscal year 1996, the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development may delegate to one or more entities the authority to 
carry out some or all of the functions and responsibilities of the 
Secretary in connection with the foreclosure of mortgages held by the 
Secretary under the National Housing Act.


  restructuring of the hud multifamily mortgage portfolio through state 
                       housing finance agencies.

    Sec. 210. During fiscal year 1996, the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development may sell or otherwise transfer multifamily mortgages 
held by the Secretary under the National Housing Act to a State housing 
finance agency in connection with a program authorized under section 
542 (b) or (c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 
without regard to the unit limitations in section 542(b)(5) or 
542(c)(4) of such Act.


                     transfer of section 8 authority

    Sec. 211. Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
amended by adding the following new subsection at the end:
    ``(bb) Transfer of Budget Authority--If an assistance contract 
under this section, other than a contract for tenant-based assistance, 
is terminated or is not renewed, or if the contract expires, the 
Secretary shall, in order to provide continued assistance to eligible 
families, including eligible families receiving the benefit of the 
project-based assistance at the time of the termination, transfer any 
budget authority remaining in the contract to another contract. The 
transfer shall be under such terms as the Secretary may prescribe.''.


                documentation of multifamily refinancings

    Sec. 212. Notwithstanding the 16th paragraph under the item 
relating to ``administrative provisions'' in title II of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-327; 108 
Stat. 2316), the amendments to section 223(a)(7) of the National 
Housing Act made by the 15th paragraph of such Act shall be effective 
during fiscal year 1996 and thereafter.


                 FHA MULTIFAMILY DEMONSTRATION AUTHORITY

    Sec. 213. (a) On and after October 1, 1995, and before October 1, 
1997, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall initiate a 
demonstration program with respect to multifamily projects whose owners 
agree to participate and whose mortgages are insured under the National 
Housing Act and that are assisted under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 and whose present section 8 rents are, in the 
aggregate, in excess of the fair market rent of the locality in which 
the project is located. These programs shall be designed to test the 
feasibility and desirability of the goal of ensuring, to the maximum 
extent practicable, that the debt service and operating expenses, 
including adequate reserves, attributable to such multifamily projects 
can be supported with or without mortgage insurance under the National 
Housing Act and with or without above-market rents and utilizing 
project-based assistance or, with the consent of the property owner, 
tenant-based assistance, while taking into account the need for 
assistance of low- and very low-income families in such projects. In 
carrying out this demonstration, the Secretary may use arrangements 
with third parties, under which the Secretary may provide for the 
assumption by the third parties (by delegation, contract, or otherwise) 
of some or all of the functions, obligations, and benefits of the 
Secretary.
        (1) Goals.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
    shall carry out the demonstration programs under this section in a 
    manner that--
            (A) will protect the financial interests of the Federal 
        Government;
            (B) will result in significant discretionary cost savings 
        through debt restructuring and subsidy reduction; and
            (C) will, in the least costly fashion, address the goals 
        of--
                (i) maintaining existing housing stock in a decent, 
            safe, and sanitary condition;
                (ii) minimizing the involuntary displacement of 
            tenants;
                (iii) restructuring the mortgages of such projects in a 
            manner that is consistent with local housing market 
            conditions;
                (iv) supporting fair housing strategies;
                (v) minimizing any adverse income tax impact on 
            property owners; and
                (vi) minimizing any adverse impact on residential 
            neighborhoods.
    In determining the manner in which a mortgage is to be restructured 
    or the subsidy reduced, the Secretary may balance competing goals 
    relating to individual projects in a manner that will further the 
    purposes of this section.
        (2) Demonstration approaches.--In carrying out the 
    demonstration programs, subject to the appropriation in subsection 
    (f), the Secretary may use one or more of the following approaches:
            (A) Joint venture arrangements with third parties, under 
        which the Secretary may provide for the assumption by the third 
        parties (by delegation, contract, or otherwise) of some or all 
        of the functions, obligations, and benefits of the Secretary.
            (B) Subsidization of the debt service of the project to a 
        level that can be paid by an owner receiving an unsubsidized 
        market rent.
            (C) Renewal of existing project-based assistance contracts 
        where the Secretary shall approve proposed initial rent levels 
        that do not exceed the greater of 120 percent of fair market 
        rents or comparable market rents for the relevant metropolitan 
        market area or at rent levels under a budget-based approach.
            (D) Nonrenewal of expiring existing project-based 
        assistance contracts and providing tenant-based assistance to 
        previously assisted households.
    (b) For purposes of carrying out demonstration programs under 
subsection (a)--
        (1) the Secretary may manage and dispose of multifamily 
    properties owned by the Secretary as of October 1, 1995 and 
    multifamily mortgages held by the Secretary as of October 1, 1995 
    for properties assisted under section 8 with rents above 110 
    percent of fair market rents without regard to any other provision 
    of law; and
        (2) the Secretary may delegate to one or more entities the 
    authority to carry out some or all of the functions and 
    responsibilities of the Secretary in connection with the 
    foreclosure of mortgages held by the Secretary under the National 
    Housing Act.
    (c) For purposes of carrying out demonstration programs under 
subsection (a), subject to such third party consents (if any) as are 
necessary including but notlimited to (i) consent by the Government 
National Mortgage Association where it owns a mortgage insured by the 
Secretary; (ii) consent by an issuer under the mortgage-backed 
securities program of the Association, subject to the responsibilities 
of the issuer to its security holders and the Association under such 
program; and (iii) parties to any contractual agreement which the 
Secretary proposes to modify or discontinue, and subject to the 
appropriation in subsection (c), the Secretary or one or more third 
parties designated by the Secretary may take the following actions:
        (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to 
    the agreement of the project owner, the Secretary or third party 
    may remove, relinquish, extinguish, modify, or agree to the removal 
    of any mortgage, regulatory agreement, project-based assistance 
    contract, use agreement, or restriction that had been imposed or 
    required by the Secretary, including restrictions on distributions 
    of income which the Secretary or third party determines would 
    interfere with the ability of the project to operate without above 
    market rents. The Secretary or third party may require an owner of 
    a property assisted under the section 8 new construction/
    substantial rehabilitation program to apply any accumulated 
    residual receipts toward effecting the purposes of this section.
        (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
    of Housing and Urban Development may enter into contracts to 
    purchase reinsurance, or enter into participations or otherwise 
    transfer economic interest in contracts of insurance or in the 
    premiums paid, or due to be paid, on such insurance to third 
    parties, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
    determine.
        (3) The Secretary may offer project-based assistance with rents 
    at or below fair market rents for the locality in which the project 
    is located and may negotiate such other terms as are acceptable to 
    the Secretary and the project owner.
        (4) The Secretary may offer to pay all or a portion of the 
    project's debt service, including payments monthly from the 
    appropriate Insurance Fund, for the full remaining term of the 
    insured mortgage.
        (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
    may forgive and cancel any FHA-insured mortgage debt that a 
    demonstration program property cannot carry at market rents while 
    bearing full operating costs.
        (6) For demonstration program properties that cannot carry full 
    operating costs (excluding debt service) at market rents, the 
    Secretary may approve project-based rents sufficient to carry such 
    full operating costs and may offer to pay the full debt service in 
    the manner provided in paragraph (4).
    (d) Community and Tenant Input.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary shall develop procedures to provide appropriate and timely 
notice to officials of the unit of general local government affected, 
the community in which the project is situated, and the tenants of the 
project.
    (e) Limitation on Demonstration Authority.--The Secretary may carry 
out demonstration programs under this section with respect to mortgages 
not to exceed 15,000 units. The demonstration authorized under this 
section shall not be expanded until the reports required under 
subsection (g) are submitted to the Congress.
    (f) Appropriation.--For the cost of modifying loans held or 
guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration, as authorized by this 
subsection (a)(2) and subsection (c), $30,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 1997: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    (g) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall submit to the Congress 
every six months after the date of enactment of this Act a report 
describing and assessing the programs carried out under the 
demonstrations. The Secretary shall also submit a final report to the 
Congress not later than six months after the end of the demonstrations. 
The reports shall include findings and recommendations for any 
legislative action appropriate. The reports shall also include a 
description of the status of each multifamily housing project selected 
for the demonstrations under this section. The final report may 
include--
        (1) the size of the projects;
        (2) the geographic locations of the projects, by State and 
    region;
        (3) the physical and financial condition of the projects;
        (4) the occupancy profile of the projects, including the 
    income, family size, race, and ethnic origin of current tenants, 
    and the rents paid by such tenants;
        (5) a description of actions undertaken pursuant to this 
    section, including a description of the effectiveness of such 
    actions and any impediments to the transfer or sale of multifamily 
    housing projects;
        (6) a description of the extent to which the demonstrations 
    under this section have displaced tenants of multifamily housing 
    projects;
        (7) a description of any of the functions performed in 
    connection with this section that are transferred or contracted out 
    to public or private entities or to States;
        (8) a description of the impact to which the demonstrations 
    under this section have affected the localities and communities 
    where the selected multifamily housing projects are located; and
        (9) a description of the extent to which the demonstrations 
    under this section have affected the owners of multifamily housing 
    projects.


                       section 8 contract renewals

    Sec. 214. (a) For fiscal year 1996 and henceforth, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use amounts available for the renewal 
of assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, 
upon termination or expiration of a contract for assistance under 
section 8 of such Act of 1937 (other than a contract for tenant-based 
assistance and notwithstanding section 8(v) of such Act for loan 
management assistance), to provide assistance under section 8 of such 
Act, subject to the Section 8 Existing Fair Market Rents, for the 
eligible families assisted under the contracts at expiration or 
termination, which assistance shall be in accordance with terms and 
conditions prescribed by the Secretary.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) and except for projects assisted 
under section 8(e)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (as it 
existed immediately prior to October 1, 1991), at the request of the 
owner, the Secretary shall renew for a period of one year contracts for 
assistance under section 8 that expire or terminate during fiscal year 
1996 at the current rent levels.
    (c) Section 8(v) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
amended to read as follows: ``The Secretary may extend expiring 
contracts entered into under this section for project-based loan 
management assistance to the extent necessary to prevent displacement 
of low-income families receiving such assistance as of September 30, 
1996.''.
    (d) Section 236(f) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
1(f)) is amended:
        (1) by striking the second sentence in paragraph (1) and 
    inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``The rental charge for 
    each dwelling unit shall be at the basic rental charge or such 
    greater amount, not exceeding the lower of (i) the fair market 
    rental charge determined pursuant to this paragraph, or (ii) the 
    fair market rental established under section 8(c) of the United 
    States Housing Act of 1937 for the market area in which the housing 
    is located, as represents 30 per centum of the tenant's adjusted 
    income.''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (6).''.


           extension of home equity conversion mortgage program

    Sec. 215. Section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
1715z-20(g)) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``September 30, 1995'' 
    and inserting ``September 30, 1996''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``25,000'' and 
    inserting ``30,000''.


  assessment collection dates for office of federal housing enterprise 
                               oversight

    Sec. 216. Section 1316(b) of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4516(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) 
and inserting the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Timing of payment.--The annual assessment shall be payable 
semiannually for each fiscal year, on October 1 and April 1.''.


  merger language for assistance for the renewal of expiring section 8 
    subsidy contracts and annual contributions for assisted housing

    Sec. 217. All remaining obligated and unobligated balances in the 
Renewal of Expiring Section 8 Subsidy Contracts account on September 
30, 1995, shall immediately thereafter be transferred to and merged 
with the obligated and unobligated balances, respectively, of the 
Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing account.


                             debt forgiveness

    Sec. 218. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
cancel the indebtedness of the Hubbard Hospital Authority of Hubbard, 
Texas, relating to the public facilities loan for Project Number PFL-
TEX-215, issued under title II of the Housing Amendments of 1955. Such 
hospital authority is relieved of all liability to the Government for 
the outstanding principal balance on such loan, for the amount of 
accrued interest on such loan, and for any fees and charges payable in 
connection with such loan.
    (b) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall cancel the 
indebtedness of the Groveton Texas Hospital Authority relating to the 
public facilities loan for Project Number TEX-41-PFL0162, issued under 
title II of the Housing Amendments of 1955. Such hospital authority is 
relieved of all liability to the Government for the outstanding 
principal balance on such loan, for the amount of accrued interest on 
such loan, and for any fees and charges payable in connection with such 
loan.
    (c) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall cancel the 
indebtedness of the Hepzibah Public Service District of Hepzibah, West 
Virginia, relating to the public facilities loan for Project Number WV-
46-PFL0031, issued under title II of the Housing Amendments of 1955. 
Such public service district is relieved of all liability to the 
Government for the outstanding principal balance on such loan, for the 
amount of accrued interest on such loan, and for any fees and charges 
payable in connection with such loan.

                             clarifications

    Sec. 219. For purposes of Federal law, the Paul Mirabile Center in 
San Diego, California, including areas within such Center that are 
devoted to the delivery of supportive services, has been determined to 
satisfy the ``continuum of care'' requirements of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, and shall be treated as--
        (a) consisting solely of residential units that (i) contain 
    sleeping accommodations and kitchen and bathroom facilities, (ii) 
    are located in a building that is used exclusively to facilitate 
    the transition of homeless individuals (within the meaning of 
    section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 
    U.S.C. 11302), as in effect on December 19, 1989) to independent 
    living within 24 months, (iii) are suitable for occupancy, with 
    each cubicle constituting a separate bedroom and residential unit, 
    (iv) are used on other than a transient basis, and (v) shall be 
    originally placed in service on November 1, 1995; and
        (b) property that is entirely residential rental property, 
    namely, a project for residential rental property.


                          employment limitations

    Sec. 220. (a) By the end of fiscal year 1996 the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development shall employ no more than seven Assistant 
Secretaries, notwithstanding section 4(a) of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development Act.
    (b) By the end of fiscal year 1996 the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall employ no more than 77 schedule C and 20 non-
career senior executive service employees.


                               use of funds

    Sec. 221. (a) Of the $93,400,000 earmarked in Public Law 101-144 
(103 Stat. 850), as amended by Public Law 101-302 (104 Stat. 237), for 
special projects and purposes, any amounts remaining of the $500,000 
made available to Bethlehem House in Highland, California, for site 
planning and loan acquisition shall instead be made available to the 
County of San Bernardino in California to assist with the expansion of 
the Los Padrinos Gang Intervention Program and the Unity Home Domestic 
Violence Shelter.
    (b) The amount made available for fiscal year 1995 for the removal 
of asbestos from an abandoned public school building in Toledo, Ohio 
shall be made available for the renovation and rehabilitation of an 
industrial building at the University of Toledo in Toledo, Ohio.

                       lead-based paint abatement

    Sec. 222. (a) Section 1011 of Title X--Residential Lead-Based Paint 
Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 is amended as follows: Strike ``priority 
housing'' wherever it appears in said section and insert ``housing''.
    (b) Section 1011(a) shall be amended as follows: At the end of the 
subsection after the period, insert: ``Grants shall only be made under 
this section to provide assistance for housing which meets the 
following criteria--
        ``(1) for grants made to assist rental housing, at least 50 
    percent of the units must be occupied by or made available to 
    families with incomes at or below 50 percent of the area median 
    income level and the remaining units shall be occupied or made 
    available to families with incomes at or below 80 percent of the 
    area median income level, and in all cases the landlord shall give 
    priority in renting units assisted under this section, for not less 
    than 3 years following the completion of lead abatement activities, 
    to families with a child under the age of six years, except that 
    buildings with five or more units may have 20 percent of the units 
    occupied by families with incomes above 80 percent of area median 
    income level;
        ``(2) for grants made to assist housing owned by owner-
    occupants, all units assisted with grants under this section shall 
    be the principal residence of families with income at or below 80 
    percent of the area median income level, and not less than 90 
    percent of the units assisted with grants under this section shall 
    be occupied by a child under the age of six years or shall be units 
    where a child under the age of six years spends a significant 
    amount of time visiting; and
        ``(3) notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), Round II grantees 
    who receive assistance under this section may use such assistance 
    for priority housing.''.


       extension period for sharing utility cost savings with phas

    Sec. 223. Section 9(a)(3)(B)(i) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 is amended by striking ``for a period not to exceed 6 years''.

                          mortgage note sales

    Sec. 223A. The first sentence of section 221(g)(4)(C)(viii) of the 
National Housing Act is amended by striking ``September 30, 1995'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1996''.


                          repeal of frost-leland

    Sec. 223B. Section 415 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development--Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988 (Public Law 
100-202; 101 Stat. 1329-213) is repealed.


               fha single-family assignment program reform

    Sec. 223C. (a) Foreclosure Avoidance.--The last sentence of section 
204(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710(a)) is amended by 
inserting before the period the following: ``:And provided further, 
That the Secretary may pay insurance benefits to the mortgagee to 
recompense the mortgagee for its actions to provide an alternative to 
the foreclosure of a mortgage that is in default, which actions may 
include special foreclosure, loan modification, and deeds in lieu of 
foreclosure, all upon terms and conditions as the mortgagee shall 
determine in the mortgagee's sole discretion, within guidelines 
provided by the Secretary, but which may not include assignment of a 
mortgage to the Secretary: And provided further, That for purposes of 
the preceding proviso, no action authorized by the Secretary and no 
action taken, nor any failure to act, by the Secretary or the mortgagee 
shall be subject to judicial review.''.
    (b) Authority To Assist Mortgagors in Default.--Section 230 of the 
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715u) is amended to read as follows:


               ``authority to assist mortgagors in default

    ``Sec. 230. (a) Payment of Partial Claim.--The Secretary may 
establish a program for payment of a partial claim to a mortgagee that 
agrees to apply the claim amount to payment of a mortgage on a 1- to 4-
family residence that is in default. Any such payment under such 
program to the mortgagee shall be made in the sole discretion of the 
Secretary and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Secretary, 
except that--
        ``(1) the amount of the payment shall be in an amount 
    determined by the Secretary, not to exceed an amount equivalent to 
    12 of the monthly mortgage payments and any costs related to the 
    default that are approved by the Secretary; and
        ``(2) the mortgagor shall agree to repay the amount of the 
    insurance claim to the Secretary upon terms and conditions 
    acceptable to the Secretary.
The Secretary may pay the mortgagee, from the appropriate insurance 
fund, in connection with any activities that the mortgagee is required 
to undertake concerning repayment by the mortgagor of the amount owed 
to the Secretary.
    ``(b) Assignment.--
        ``(1) Program authority.--The Secretary may establish a program 
    for assignment to the Secretary, upon request of the mortgagee, of 
    a mortgage on a 1- to 4-family residence insured under this Act.
        ``(2) Program requirements.--The Secretary may accept 
    assignment of a mortgage under a program under this subsection only 
    if--
            ``(A) the mortgage was in default;
            ``(B) the mortgagee has modified the mortgage to cure the 
        default and provide for mortgage payments within the reasonable 
        ability of the mortgagor to pay, at interest rates not 
        exceeding current market interest rates; and
            ``(C) the Secretary arranges for servicing of the assigned 
        mortgage by a mortgagee (which may include the assigning 
        mortgagee) through procedures that the Secretary has determined 
        to be in the best interests of the appropriate insurance fund.
        ``(3) Payment of insurance benefits.--Upon accepting assignment 
    of a mortgage under a program established under this subsection, 
    the Secretary may pay insurance benefits to the mortgagee from the 
    appropriate insurance fund, in an amount that the Secretary 
    determines to be appropriate, not to exceed the amount necessary to 
    compensate the mortgagee for the assignment and any losses and 
    expenses resulting from the mortgage modification.
    ``(c) Prohibition of judicial review.--No decision by the Secretary 
to exercise or forego exercising any authority under this section shall 
be subject to judicial review.''.
    (c) Savings Provision.--Any mortgage for which the mortgagor has 
applied to the Secretary, before the date of enactment of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, for assignment pursuant 
to subsection (b) of this sectionas in effect before such date of 
enactment shall continue to be governed by the provisions of such 
section, as in effect immediately before such date of enactment.
    (d) Applicability of Other Laws.--No provision of this Act, or any 
other law, shall be construed to require the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development to provide an alternative to foreclosure for 
mortgagees with mortgages on 1- to 4-family residences insured by the 
Secretary under the National Housing Act, or to accept assignments of 
such mortgages.
    (e) Applicability of Amendments.--Except as provided in subsection 
(d), the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply with 
respect to mortgages originated before fiscal year 1996.
    (f) Regulations.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall issue interim regulations to implement this section and 
amendments made by this section.
    (g) Effectiveness and Applicability.--If this Act is enacted after 
the date of enactment of the Balanced Budget Act of 1995--
        (1) subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section 
    shall not take effect; and
        (2) section 2052(c) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1995 is 
    amended by striking ``that are originated on or after October 1, 
    1995'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``to mortgages originated 
    before, during, and after fiscal year 1996.''.


                           spending limitations

    Sec. 223D. (a) None of the funds in this Act may be used by the 
Secretary to impose any sanction, or penalty because of the enactment 
of any State or local law or regulation declaring English as the 
official language.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
used for lobbying activities as prohibited by law.


            transfer of functions to the department of justice

    Sec. 223E. All functions, activities and responsibilities of the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development relating to title VIII of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments 
Act of 1988, and the Fair Housing Act, including any rights guaranteed 
under the Fair Housing Act (including any functions relating to the 
Fair Housing Initiatives program under section 561 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1987), are hereby transferred to the 
Attorney General of the United States effective April 1, 1997: 
Provided, That none of the aforementioned authority or responsibility 
for enforcement of the Fair Housing Act shall be transferred to the 
Attorney General until adequate personnel and resources allocated to 
such activity at the Department of Housing and Urban Development are 
transferred to the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 224. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used during 
fiscal year 1996 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair Housing Act 
(42 U.S.C. 3601, et seq.) any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by 
one or more persons, including the filing or maintaining of non-
frivolous legal action, that is engaged in solely for the purposes of 
achieving or preventing action by a Government official, entity, or 
court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 225. None of the funds provided in this Act many be used to 
take any enforcement action with respect to a complaint of 
discrimination under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601, et seq.) on 
the basis of familial status and which involves an occupancy standard 
established by the housing provider except to the extent that it is 
found that there has been discrimination in contravention of the 
standards provided in the March 20, 1991 Memorandum from the General 
Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development to all 
Regional Counsel or until such time that HUD issues a final rule in 
accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code.


                         cdbg eligible activities

    Sec. 226. Section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) by inserting ``reconstruction,'' after ``removal,''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``acquisition for rehabilitation, and 
        rehabilitation'' and inserting ``acquisition for reconstruction 
        or rehabilitation, and reconstruction or rehabilitation'';
        (2) in paragraph (13), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (3) by striking paragraph (19);
        (4) in paragraph (24), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (5) in paragraph (25), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and'';
        (6) by redesignating paragraphs (20) through (25) as paragraphs 
    (19) through (24), respectively; and
        (7) by redesignating paragraph (21) (as added by section 
    1012(f)(3) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992) as 
    paragraph (25).

                               TITLE III

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries; 
$20,265,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That where 
station allowance has been authorized by the Department of the Army for 
officers of the Army serving the Army at certain foreign stations, the 
same allowance shall be authorized for officers of the Armed Forces 
assigned to the Commission while serving at the same foreign stations, 
and this appropriation is hereby made available for the payment of such 
allowance: Provided further, That when traveling on business of the 
Commission, officers of the Armed Forces serving as members or as 
Secretary of the Commission may be reimbursed for expenses as provided 
for civilian members of the Commission: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall reimburse other Government agencies, including the 
Armed Forces, for salary, pay, and allowances of personnel assigned to 
it.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18, purchase of nominal awards to 
recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to Commission 
activities, and not to exceed $500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $40,000,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service


        national and community service programs operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service in carrying out the orderly termination of programs, 
activities, and initiatives under the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990, as amended (Public Law 103-82), $15,000,000: Provided, 
That such amount shall be utilized to resolve all responsibilities and 
obligations in connection with said Corporation and the Corporation's 
Office of Inspector General.

                       Court of Veterans Appeals


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. sections 7251-7292, 
$9,000,000, of which not to exceed $678,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997, shall be available for the purpose of providing 
financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the process 
and reporting procedures set forth, under this head in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $11,946,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Environmental Protection Agency


                          science and technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended; necessary expenses for 
personnel and related costs and travel expenses, including uniforms, or 
allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; procurement of 
laboratory equipment and supplies; other operating expenses in support 
of research and development; construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; $525,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
1997.


                  environmental programs and management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for GS-18; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; 
library memberships in societies or associations which issue 
publications to members only or at a price to members lower than to 
subscribers who are not members; construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; and not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $1,550,300,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 1997: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for this fiscal year and hereafter, an industrial 
discharger that is a pharmaceutical manufacturing facility and 
discharged to the Kalamazoo Water Reclamation Plant (an advanced 
wastewater treatment plant with activated carbon) prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act may be exempted from categorical pretreatment 
standards under section 307(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended, if the following conditions are met:
        (1) the owner or operator of the Kalamazoo Water Reclamation 
    Plant applies to the State of Michigan for an exemption for such 
    industrial discharger,
        (2) the State or Administrator, as applicable, approves such 
    exemption request based upon a determination that the Kalamazoo 
    Water Reclamation Plant will provide treatment and pollution 
    removal equivalent to or better than that which would be required 
    through a combination of pretreatment by such industrial discharger 
    and treatment by the Kalamazoo Water Reclamation Plant in the 
    absence of the exemption, and
        (3) compliance with paragraph (2) is addressed by the 
    provisions and conditions of a permit issued to the Kalamazoo Water 
    Reclamation Plant under section 402 of such Act, and there exists 
    an operative financial contract between the City of Kalamazoo and 
    the industrial user and an approved local pretreatment program, 
    including a joint monitoring program and local controls to prevent 
    against interference and pass through.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$28,500,000.


                         Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $60,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                      Hazardous Substance Superfund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111 (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; not to 
exceed $1,163,400,000, to remain available until expended, consisting 
of $913,400,000 as authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended by Public 
Law 101-508, and $250,000,000 as a payment from general revenues to the 
Hazardous Substance Superfund as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA, 
as amended by Public Law 101-508: Provided, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be allocated to other Federal agencies in 
accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, That 
$11,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the Office of Inspector General appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 1996: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 111(m) of CERCLA or any other provision of law, 
not to exceed $59,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be available to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
Registry to carry out activities described in sections 104(i), 
111(c)(4), and 111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 118(f) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to issue in excess of 
40 toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading may be used by the Environmental 
Protection Agency to propose for listing or to list any additional 
facilities on the National Priorities List established by section 105 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability 
Act (CERCLA), as amended (42 U.S.C. 9605), unless the Administrator 
receives a written request to propose for listing or to list a facility 
from the Governor of the State in which the facility is located, or 
unless legislation to reauthorize CERCLA is enacted.


               leaking underground storage tank trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, 
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not 
to exceed $75,000 per project, $45,827,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no more than $7,000,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That $500,000 shall be 
transferred to the Office of Inspector General appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.


                            oil spill response

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$15,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not more than 
$8,000,000 of these funds shall be available for administrative 
expenses.


                    State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $2,323,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $1,400,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
State revolving funds to support water infrastructure financing; 
$100,000,000 for architectural, engineering, design, construction and 
related activities in connection with the construction of high priority 
water and wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
Border, after consultation with the appropriate border commission; 
$50,000,000 for grants to the State of Texas, which shall be matched by 
an equal amount of State funds from State resources, for the purpose of 
improving wastewater treatment for colonias; $15,000,000 for grants to 
the State of Alaska, subject to an appropriate cost share as determined 
by the Administrator, to address wastewater infrastructure needs of 
rural and Alaska Native villages; and $100,000,000 for making grants 
for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities and the 
development of groundwater in accordance with the terms and conditions 
specified for such grants in the Conference Report accompanying this 
Act (H.R. 2099): Provided, That beginning in fiscal year 1996 and each 
fiscal year thereafter, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Administrator is authorized to make grants annually from funds 
appropriated under this heading, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Administrator shall establish, to any State or federally 
recognized Indian tribe for multimedia or single media pollution 
prevention, control and abatement and related environmental activities 
at the request of the Governor or other appropriate State official or 
the tribe: Provided further, That from funds appropriated under this 
heading, the Administrator may make grants to federally recognized 
Indian governments for the development of multimedia environmental 
programs: Provided further, That of the $1,400,000,000 for 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds to support water 
infrastructure financing, $275,000,000 shall be for drinking water 
State revolving funds, but if no drinking water State revolving fund 
legislation is enacted by June 1, 1996, these funds shall immediately 
be available for making capitalization grants under title VI of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended: Provided further, That 
of the funds made available in Public Law 103-327 and in Public Law 
103-124 for capitalization grants for State revolving funds to support 
water infrastructure financing, $225,000,000 shall be made available 
for capitalization grants for State revolving funds under title VI of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, if no drinking 
water State revolving fund legislation is enacted by June 1, 1996: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading 
for capitalization grants for State Revolving Funds under title VI of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, $50,000,000 shall 
be for wastewater treatment in impoverished communities pursuant to 
section 102(d) of H.R. 961 as approved by the United States House of 
Representatives on May 16, 1995: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated in the Construction Grants and Water Infrastructure/State 
Revolving Funds accounts since the appropriation for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1992, and hereafter, for making grants for 
wastewater treatment works construction projects, portions may be 
provided by the recipients to States for managing construction grant 
activities, on condition that the States agree to reimburse the 
recipients from State funding sources: Provided further, That the funds 
made available in Public Law 103-327 for a grant to the City of Mt. 
Arlington, New Jersey, in accordance with House Report 103-715, shall 
be available for a grant to that city for water and sewer improvements.


                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used within 
the Environmental Protection Agency for any final action by the 
Administrator or her delegate for signing and publishing for 
promulgation of a rule concerning any new standard for radon in 
drinking water.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used during 
fiscal year 1996 to sign, promulgate, implement or enforce the 
requirement proposed as ``Regulation of Fuels and Fuel Additives: 
Individual Foreign Refinery Baseline Requirements for Reformulated 
Gasoline'' at volume 59 of the Federal Register at pages 22800 through 
22814.
    Sec. 303. None of the funds appropriated to the Environmental 
Protection Agency for fiscal year 1996 may be used to implement section 
404(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended. No 
pending action by the Environmental Protection Agency to implement 
section 404(c) with respect to an individual permit shall remain in 
effect after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 304. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be used 
to implement the requirements of section 186(b)(2), section 187(b) or 
section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7512(b)(2), 7512a(b), or 
7545(m)) with respect to any moderate nonattainment area in which the 
average daily winter temperature is below 0 degrees Fahrenheit. The 
preceding sentence shall not be interpreted to preclude assistance from 
the Environmental Protection Agency to the State of Alaska to make 
progress toward meeting the carbon monoxide standard in such areas and 
to resolve remaining issues regarding the use of oxygenated fuels in 
such areas.

                   Executive Office of the President


                 office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $4,981,000: Provided, That the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy shall reimburse other agencies for not 
less than one-half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals 
detailed to it.


   council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Improvement Act of 1970 and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 
1977, $1,000,000.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency


                             Disaster Relief

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the functions of the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5121 et seq.), $222,000,000, to remain available until expended.


             disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,155,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $95,000.


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343); uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; expenses of 
attendance of cooperating officials and individuals at meetings 
concerned with the work of emergency preparedness; transportation in 
connection with the continuity of Government programs to the same 
extent and in the same manner as permitted the Secretary of a Military 
Department under 10 U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $168,900,000.


                     office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $4,673,000.


               emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 
1978, $203,044,000.


                    emergency food and shelter program

    There is hereby appropriated $100,000,000 to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency to carry out an emergency food and shelter program 
pursuant to title III of Public Law 100-77, as amended: Provided, That 
total administrative costs shall not exceed three and one-half per 
centum of the total appropriation.


                      National Flood Insurance Fund

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, and the National Flood Insurance 
Reform Act of 1994, not to exceed $20,562,000 for salaries and expenses 
associated with flood mitigation and flood insurance operations, and 
not to exceed $70,464,000 for flood mitigation, including up to 
$12,000,000 for expenses under section 1366 of the National Flood 
Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, which amount shall be available 
until September 30, 1997. In fiscal year 1996, no funds in excess of 
(1) $47,000,000 for operating expenses, (2) $292,526,000 for agents' 
commissions and taxes, and (3) $3,500,000 for interest on Treasury 
borrowings shall be available from the National Flood Insurance Fund 
without prior notice to the Committees on Appropriations.


                         Administrative Provision

    The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
promulgate through rulemaking a methodology for assessment and 
collection of fees to be assessed and collected beginning in fiscal 
year 1996 applicable to persons subject to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency's radiological emergency preparedness regulations. 
The aggregate charges assessed pursuant to this section during fiscal 
year 1996 shall approximate, but not be less than, 100 per centum of 
the amounts anticipated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to 
be obligated for its radiological emergency preparedness program for 
such fiscal year. The methodology for assessment and collection of fees 
shall be fair and equitable, and shall reflect the full amount of costs 
of providing radiological emergency planning, preparedness, response 
and associated services. Such fees will be assessed in a manner that 
reflects the use of agency resources for classes of regulated persons 
and the administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received 
pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury as offsetting receipts. Assessment and collection of such fees 
are only authorized during fiscal year 1996.

                    General Services Administration


                       Consumer Information Center

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,061,000, to be 
deposited into the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the 
appropriations, revenues and collections deposited into the fund shall 
be available for necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center 
activities in the aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Administrative 
expenses of the Consumer Information Center in fiscal year 1996 shall 
not exceed $2,602,000. Appropriations, revenues, and collections 
accruing to this fund during fiscal year 1996 in excess of $7,500,000 
shall remain in the fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                            Human Space Flight

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of human space flight research and development activities, 
including research; development; operations; services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including repair, rehabilitation, and 
modification of real and personal property, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
and operation of mission and administrative aircraft; $5,456,600,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 1997.


                   Science, Aeronautics and Technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, and technology research and 
development activities, including research; development; operations; 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities including repair, 
rehabilitation and modification of real and personal property, and 
acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities 
including operations, production, and services; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft; $5,845,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.

                            mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for human space flight programs and science, 
aeronautical, and technology programs, including research operations 
and support; space communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of facilities, minor 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, environmental compliance and restoration, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
program management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $35,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 
thirty-three for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $2,502,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $16,000,000.


                        Administrative Provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities as authorized by law, the amount available 
for such activity shall remain available until expended. This provision 
does not apply to the amounts appropriated in ``Mission support'' 
pursuant to the authorization for repair, rehabilitation and 
modification of facilities, minor constructionof new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 1998.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'' and ``Office of Inspector 
General'', amounts made available by this Act for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall remain available until September 30, 1996 and may 
be used to enter into contracts for training, investigations, cost 
associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.
    The unexpired balances of prior appropriations to NASA for 
activities for which funds are provided under this Act may be 
transferred to the new account established for the appropriation that 
provides funds for such activity under this Act. Balances so 
transferred may be merged with funds in the newly established account 
and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund to be available for the 
same purposes and under the same terms and conditions.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall convey, without 
reimbursement, to the State of Mississippi, all rights, title and 
interest of the United States in the property known as the Yellow Creek 
Facility and consisting of approximately 1,200 acres near the city of 
Iuka, Mississippi, including all improvements thereon and also 
including any personal property owned by NASA that is currently located 
on-site and which the State of Mississippi requires to facilitate the 
transfer: Provided, That appropriated funds shall be used to effect 
this conveyance: Provided further, That $10,000,000 in appropriated 
funds otherwise available to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall be transferred to the State of Mississippi to be 
used in the transition of the facility: Provided further, That each 
Federal agency with prior contact to the site shall remain responsible 
for any and all environmental remediation made necessary as a result of 
its activities on the site: Provided further, That in consideration of 
this conveyance, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration may 
require such other terms and conditions as the Administrator deems 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States: Provided 
further, That the conveyance of the site and the transfer of the funds 
to the State of Mississippi shall occur not later than thirty days from 
the date of enactment of this Act.
    Upon the determination by the Administrator that such action is 
necessary, the Administrator may, with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed $50,000,000 of funds made 
available in this Act to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration between such appropriations or any subdivision thereof, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and for 
the same time period, as the appropriation to which transferred: 
Provided, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen requirements, than those for 
which originally appropriated: Provided further, That the Administrator 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall notify the 
Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority.

                  National Credit Union Administration


                        Central Liquidity Facility

    During fiscal year 1996, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions as authorized by the National Credit Union Central Liquidity 
Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795) shall not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, 
That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity Facility in 
fiscal year 1996 shall not exceed $560,000.

                      National Science Foundation


                     research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the purposes of the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and 
the Act to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of 
aircraft and purchase of flight services for research support; 
acquisition of aircraft; $2,274,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$235,000,000 shall remain available until expended for Polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other 
relatedactivities for the United States Antarctic program; the balance 
to remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That receipts 
for scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the amount appropriated is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally.


                         major research equipment

    For necessary expenses in carrying out major construction projects, 
and related expenses, pursuant to the purposes of the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), $70,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.


                     Academic Research Infrastructure

    For necessary expenses in carrying out an academic research 
infrastructure program pursuant to the purposes of the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997.


                      education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
purposes of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1861-1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 
and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$599,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, 
That to the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally.


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary salaries and expenses in carrying out the purposes of 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1861-1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia; reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services; $127,310,000: Provided, That contracts may be 
entered into under salaries and expenses in fiscal year 1996 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $4,490,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.


           national science foundation headquarters relocation

    For necessary support of the relocation of the National Science 
Foundation, $5,200,000: Provided, That these funds shall be used to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for services and related 
acquisitions in support of relocating the National Science Foundation.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation


           payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $38,667,000.

                        Selective Service System


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 4101-4118) for civilian employees; and not to exceed 
$1,000 for official reception and representation expenses; $22,930,000: 
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he 
deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by the Act may be 
expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into the 
Armed Forces of the United States.

                                TITLE IV

                              CORPORATIONS

    Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development which are subject to the Government Corporation Control 
Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, 
within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each 
such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 1996 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used fornew loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.

                      Resolution Trust Corporation


                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $11,400,000.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this Act 
are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has been 
placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not 
exceed the amounts set forth therefor in the budget estimates submitted 
for the appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
travel performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal 
boards of the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with 
major disasters or emergencies declared or determined by the President 
under the provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of 
Inspector General in connection with audits and investigations; or to 
payments to interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the 
budget schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, 
II, and III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially 
submitted for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may 
correspondingly exceed the amounts therefor set forth in the estimates 
in the same proportion.
    Sec. 502. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 503. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Resolution Trust Corporation, 
Federal Reserve banks or any member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, 
and any insured bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).
    Sec. 504. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 505. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
        (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee of 
    the United States unless--
            (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is part of, a 
        voucher or abstract which describes the payee or payees and the 
        items or services for which such expenditure is being made, or
            (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
        certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, is 
        specifically authorized by law; and
        (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the General 
    Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from such audit.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between his domicile and his 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under title 31, United States Code, 
section 1344.
    Sec. 507. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share 
in the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest 
of the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 508. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used, 
directly or through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for 
payment of the salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal 
Government or a grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate 
paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically 
authorized by law.
    Sec. 509. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pay the 
expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein affects the 
authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 
7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 et seq.).
    Sec. 510. Except as otherwise provided under existing law or under 
an existing Executive order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts 
which are (1) a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of 
all contracts entered into within twenty-four months prior to the date 
on which the list is made available to the public and of all contracts 
on which performance has not been completed by such date. The list 
required by the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall 
include a narrative description of the work to be performed under each 
such contract.
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) for a contract for 
services unless such executive agency (1) has awarded and entered into 
such contract in full compliance with such Act and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, and (2) requires any report prepared pursuant 
to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, analyses and 
manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is substantially 
derived from or substantially includes any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, to contain information concerning (A) the contract 
pursuant to which the report was prepared, and (B) the contractor who 
prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 512. Except as otherwise provided in section 506, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 513. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles 
per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 514. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1996 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 515. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on 
which the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 516. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 517. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 519. In fiscal year 1996, the Director of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency shall sell the disaster housing inventory 
of mobile homes and trailers, and the proceeds thereof shall be 
deposited in the Treasury.
    Sec. 520. Such funds as may be necessary to carry out the orderly 
termination of the Office of Consumer Affairs shall be made available 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Health and Human Services 
for fiscal year 1996.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1996''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                                Vice President of the United States and
                                               President of the Senate.