[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4516 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4516

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
             the twenty-fourth day of January, two thousand


                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
                                 ending 
               September 30, 2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

                               DIVISION A

                   LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE


       payment to widows and heirs of deceased members of congress

    For a payment to Nancy Nally Coverdell, widow of Paul D. Coverdell, 
late a Senator from Georgia, $141,300.

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and 
Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for 
each Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy 
Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; in all, $62,000.

    representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $92,321,000, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, 
as follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,785,000.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $453,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,742,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,722,000.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $6,917,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,152,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,304,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $590,000.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,171,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,342,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $288,000.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $14,738,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $34,811,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,292,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $22,337,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $4,046,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,069,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-
ninth Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $73,000,000.


      expenses of the united states senate caucus on international 
                           narcotics control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $370,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$2,077,000.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $71,511,000, of which $2,500,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2003.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $8,655,000.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$253,203,000.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Section 1. Semiannual Report. (a) In General.--Section 105(a) of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1965 (2 U.S.C. 104a) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (1) relating 
to the level of detail of statement and itemization, each report by the 
Secretary of the Senate required under such paragraph shall be compiled 
at a summary level for each office of the Senate authorized to obligate 
appropriated funds.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the reporting of 
expenditures relating to personnel compensation, travel and 
transportation of persons, other contractual services, and acquisition 
of assets.
    ``(C) In carrying out this paragraph the Secretary of the Senate 
shall apply the Standard Federal Object Classification of Expenses as 
the Secretary determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date and Application.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendment made 
    by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this 
    Act.
        (2) First report after enactment.--The Secretary of the Senate 
    may elect to compile and submit the report for the semiannual 
    period during which the date of enactment of this section occurs, 
    as if the amendment made by this section had not been enacted.
    Sec. 2. Senate Employee Pay Adjustments. Section 4 of the Federal 
Pay Comparability Act of 1970 (2 U.S.C. 60a-1) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``(or section 5304 or 5304a of such title, 
        as applied to employees employed in the pay locality of the 
        Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, Maryland consolidated metropolitan 
        statistical area)'' after ``employees under section 5303 of 
        title 5, United States Code,''; and
            (B) by inserting ``(and, as the case may be, section 5304 
        or 5304a of such title, as applied to employees employed in the 
        pay locality of the Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, Maryland 
        consolidated metropolitan statistical area)'' after ``the 
        President under such section 5303'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Any percentage used in any statute specifically providing for 
an adjustment in rates of pay in lieu of an adjustment made under 
section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, and, as the case may be, 
section 5304 or 5304a of such title for any calendar year shall be 
treated as the percentage used in an adjustment made under such section 
5303, 5304, or 5304a, as applicable, for purposes of subsection (a).''.
    Sec. 3. (a) Section 6(c) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (2 U.S.C. 121b-1(c)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and agency contributions'' in paragraph 
    (2)(A), and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Agency contributions for employees of Senate Hair Care 
    Services shall be paid from the appropriations account for 
    `Salaries, Officers and Employees'.''.
    (b) This section shall apply to pay periods beginning on or after 
October 1, 2000.
    Sec. 4. (a) There is established in the Treasury of the United 
States a revolving fund to be known as the Senate Health and Fitness 
Facility Revolving Fund (``the revolving fund'').
    (b) The Architect of the Capitol shall deposit in the revolving 
fund--
        (1) any amounts received as dues or other assessments for use 
    of the Senate Health and Fitness Facility, and
        (2) any amounts received from the operation of the Senate waste 
    recycling program.
    (c) Subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, amounts in the revolving fund shall be available to the 
Architect of the Capitol, without fiscal year limitation, for payment 
of costs of the Senate Health and Fitness Facility.
    (d) The Architect of the Capitol shall withdraw from the revolving 
fund and deposit in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous 
receipts all moneys in the revolving fund that the Architect determines 
are in excess of the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the 
Senate Health and Fitness Facility.
    (e) Subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate, the Architect of the Capitol may issue 
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of 
this section.
    Sec. 5. For each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2001), there is authorized an expense allowance 
for the Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees which 
shall not exceed $3,000 each fiscal year for each such Chairman; and 
amounts from such allowance shall be paid to either of such Chairmen 
only as reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by him and upon 
certification and documentation of such expenses, and amounts so paid 
shall not be reported as income and shall not be allowed as a deduction 
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    Sec. 6. (a) The head of the employing office of an employee of the 
Senate may, upon termination of employment of the employee, authorize 
payment of a lump sum for the accrued annual leave of that employee 
if--
        (1) the head of the employing office--
            (A) has approved a written leave policy authorizing 
        employees to accrue leave and establishing the conditions upon 
        which accrued leave may be paid; and
            (B) submits written certification to the Financial Clerk of 
        the Senate of the number of days of annual leave accrued by the 
        employee for which payment is to be made under the written 
        leave policy of the employing office; and
        (2) there are sufficient funds to cover the lump sum payment.
    (b)(1) A lump sum payment under this section shall not exceed the 
lesser of--
        (A) twice the monthly rate of pay of the employee; or
        (B) the product of the daily rate of pay of the employee and 
    the number of days of accrued annual leave of the employee.
    (2) The Secretary of the Senate shall determine the rates of pay of 
an employee under paragraph (1) (A) and (B) on the basis of the annual 
rate of pay of the employee in effect on the date of termination of 
employment.
    (c) Any payment under this section shall be paid from the 
appropriation account or fund used to pay the employee.
    (d) If an individual who received a lump sum payment under this 
section is reemployed as an employee of the Senate before the end of 
the period covered by the lump sum payment, the individual shall refund 
an amount equal to the applicable pay covering the period between the 
date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump sum period. Such 
amount shall be deposited to the appropriation account or fund used to 
pay the lump sum payment.
    (e) The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may 
prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
    (f) In this section, the term--
        (1) ``employee of the Senate'' means any employee whose pay is 
    disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, except that the term does 
    not include a member of the Capitol Police or a civilian employee 
    of the Capitol Police; and
        (2) ``head of the employing office'' means any person with the 
    final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, 
    conditions, or privileges of the employment of an individual whose 
    pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.
    Sec. 7. (a) Agency contributions for employees whose salaries are 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate from the appropriations 
account ``Joint Economic Committee'' under the heading ``JOINT ITEMS'' 
shall be paid from the Senate appropriations account for ``Salaries, 
Officers and Employees''.
    (b) This section shall apply to pay periods beginning on or after 
October 1, 2000.
    Sec. 8. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 (40 U.S.C. 188b-6) is 
amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``items 
    of art, fine art, and historical items'' and inserting ``works of 
    art, historical objects, documents or material relating to 
    historical matters for placement or exhibition'';
        (2) in the second sentence of subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``such items'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``such works, objects, documents, or material'' in 
        each such place; and
            (B) by striking ``an item'' and inserting ``a work, object, 
        document, or material''; and
        (3) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``such items of art'' and inserting ``such 
        works, objects, documents, or materials''; and
            (B) by striking ``shall'' and inserting ``may''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$769,551,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $14,378,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,759,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,726,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $2,096,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,466,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,096,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $410,000; 
Republican Steering Committee, $765,000; Republican Conference, 
$1,255,000; Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, $1,352,000; 
Democratic Caucus, $668,000; nine minority employees, $1,229,000; 
training and program development--majority $278,000; and training and 
program development--minority, $278,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $410,182,000.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $92,196,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2002.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$20,628,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2002.

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $90,403,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $3,500, of which not 
more than $2,500 is for the Family Room, for official representation 
and reception expenses, $14,590,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of 
Superintendent of Garages, and including not more than $750 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $3,692,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative 
Officer, $58,550,000, of which $1,054,000 shall remain available until 
expended, including $26,605,000 for salaries, expenses and temporary 
personal services of House Information Resources, of which $26,020,000 
is provided herein: Provided, That of the amount provided for House 
Information Resources, $6,497,000 shall be for net expenses of 
telecommunications: Provided further, That House Information Resources 
is authorized to receive reimbursement from Members of the House of 
Representatives and other governmental entities for services provided 
and such reimbursement shall be deposited in the Treasury for credit to 
this account; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
General, $3,249,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of General 
Counsel, $806,000; for the Office of the Chaplain, $140,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Parliamentarian, including 
the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, 
$1,201,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision 
Counsel of the House, $2,045,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Legislative Counsel of the House, $5,085,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Corrections Calendar Office, $832,000; and 
for other authorized employees, $213,000.

                        allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $141,764,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $2,235,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $138,726,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation 
of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities 
to heirs of deceased employees of the House, $393,000.

                           child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child 
Care Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established 
by section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 
(40 U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of 
the Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. During fiscal year 2001 and any succeeding fiscal year, 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives may--
        (1) enter into contracts for the acquisition of severable 
    services for a period that begins in 1 fiscal year and ends in the 
    next fiscal year to the same extent as the head of an executive 
    agency under the authority of section 303L of the Federal Property 
    and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253l); and
        (2) enter into multi-year contracts for the acquisitions of 
    property and nonaudit-related services to the same extent as 
    executive agencies under the authority of section 304B of the 
    Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 
    254c).
    Sec. 102. (a) Permitting New House Employees To Be Placed Above 
Minimum Step of Compensation Level.--The House Employees Position 
Classification Act (2 U.S.C. 291 et seq.) is amended by striking 
section 10 (2 U.S.C. 299).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to employees appointed on or after October 1, 2000.
    Sec. 103. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances to be Used For Deficit Reduction or to 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2001. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2001 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 104. (a) There is hereby appropriated for payment to the 
Prince William County Public Schools $215,000, to be used to pay for 
educational services for the son of Mrs. Evelyn Gibson, the widow of 
Detective John Michael Gibson of the United States Capitol Police.
    (b) The payment under subsection (a) shall be made in accordance 
with terms and conditions established by the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives.
    (c) The funds used for the payment made under subsection (a) shall 
be derived from the applicable accounts of the House of 
Representatives.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

     Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 2001

    For all construction expenses, salaries, and other expenses 
associated with conducting the inaugural ceremonies of the President 
and Vice President of the United States, January 20, 2001, in 
accordance with such program as may be adopted by the joint committee 
authorized by Senate Concurrent Resolution 89, agreed to March 14, 2000 
(One Hundred Sixth Congress), and Senate Concurrent Resolution 90, 
agreed to March 14, 2000 (One Hundred Sixth Congress), $1,000,000 to be 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and to remain available until 
September 30, 2001. Funds made available under this heading shall be 
available for payment, on a direct or reimbursable basis, whether 
incurred on, before, or after, October 1, 2000: Provided, That the 
compensation of any employee of the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate who has been designated to perform service 
for the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies shall 
continue to be paid by the Committee on Rules and Administration, but 
the account from which such staff member is paid may be reimbursed for 
the services of the staff member (including agency contributions when 
appropriate) out of funds made available under this heading.


                         administrative provision

    Sec. 105. During fiscal year 2001 the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide protective services on a non-reimbursable basis to the United 
States Capitol Police with respect to the following events:
        (1) Upon request of the Chair of the Joint Congressional 
    Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies established under Senate 
    Concurrent Resolution 89, One Hundred Sixth Congress, agreed to 
    March 14, 2000, the proceedings and ceremonies conducted for the 
    inauguration of the President-elect and Vice President-elect of the 
    United States.
        (2) Upon request of the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
    and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, the joint session of 
    Congress held to receive a message from the President of the United 
    States on the State of the Union.

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,315,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$6,430,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,159,904 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,835,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $97,142,000, of which $47,053,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House, and $50,089,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, 
telephone service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and 
liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and 
$85 per month for extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board 
by an employee of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives designated by the Chairman of the Board, $6,772,000, to 
be disbursed by the Capitol Police Board or their delegee: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2001 shall be paid by the Secretary of the 
Treasury from funds available to the Department of the Treasury.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 106. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2001 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--
        (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
    appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
    Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
        (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the case 
    of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to the 
    Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the heading 
    ``salaries''; and
        (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
    House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.
    Sec. 107. (a) Appointment of Certifying Officers of the Capitol 
Police.--The Chief Administrative Officer of the United States Capitol 
Police, or when there is not a Chief Administrative Officer the Capitol 
Police Board, shall appoint certifying officers to certify all vouchers 
for payment from funds made available to the United States Capitol 
Police.
    (b) Responsibility and Accountability of Certifying Officers.--
        (1) In general.--Each officer or employee of the Capitol Police 
    who has been duly authorized in writing by the Chief Administrative 
    Officer, or the Capitol Police Board if there is not a Chief 
    Administrative Officer, to certify vouchers pursuant to subsection 
    (a) shall--
            (A) be held responsible for the existence and correctness 
        of the facts recited in the certificate or otherwise stated on 
        the voucher or its supporting papers and for the legality of 
        the proposed payment under the appropriation or fund involved;
            (B) be held responsible and accountable for the correctness 
        of the computations of certified vouchers; and
            (C) be held accountable for and required to make good to 
        the United States the amount of any illegal, improper, or 
        incorrect payment resulting from any false, inaccurate, or 
        misleading certificate made by such officer or employee, as 
        well as for any payment prohibited by law or which did not 
        represent a legal obligation under the appropriation or fund 
        involved.
        (2) Relief by comptroller general.--The Comptroller General 
    may, at the Comptroller General's discretion, relieve such 
    certifying officer or employee of liability for any payment 
    otherwise proper if the Comptroller General finds--
            (A) that the certification was based on official records 
        and that the certifying officer or employee did not know, and 
        by reasonable diligence and inquiry could not have ascertained, 
        the actual facts; or
            (B) that the obligation was incurred in good faith, that 
        the payment was not contrary to any statutory provision 
        specifically prohibiting payments of the character involved, 
        and the United States has received value for such payment.
    (c) Enforcement of Liability.--The liability of the certifying 
officers of the United States Capitol Police shall be enforced in the 
same manner and to the same extent as currently provided with respect 
to the enforcement of the liability of disbursing and other accountable 
officers, and such officers shall have the right to apply for and 
obtain a decision by the Comptroller General on any question of law 
involved in a payment on any vouchers presented to them for 
certification.
    Sec. 108. Chief Administrative Officer.--(a) There shall be within 
the Capitol Police an Office of Administration to be headed by a Chief 
Administrative Officer:
        (1) The Chief Administrative Officer shall be appointed by the 
    Comptroller General after consultation with the Capitol Police 
    Board, and shall report to and serve at the pleasure of the 
    Comptroller General.
        (2) The Comptroller General shall appoint as Chief 
    Administrative Officer an individual with the knowledge and skills 
    necessary to carry out the responsibilities for budgeting, 
    financial management, information technology, and human resource 
    management described in this section.
        (3) The Chief Administrative Officer shall receive basic pay at 
    a rate determined by the Comptroller General, but not to exceed the 
    annual rate of basic pay payable for ES-2 of the Senior Executive 
    Service Basic Rates Schedule established for members of the Senior 
    Executive Service of the General Accounting Office under section 
    733 of title 31.
        (4) The Capitol Police shall reimburse from available 
    appropriations any costs incurred by the General Accounting Office 
    under this section.
    (b) The Chief Administrative Officer shall have the following areas 
of responsibility:
        (1) Budgeting.--The Chief Administrative Officer shall--
            (A) after consulting with the Chief of Police on the 
        portion of the budget covering uniformed police force 
        personnel, prepare and submit to the Capitol Police Board an 
        annual budget for the Capitol Police; and
            (B) execute the budget and monitor through periodic 
        examinations the execution of the Capitol Police budget in 
        relation to actual obligations and expenditures.
        (2) Financial management.--The Chief Administrative Officer 
    shall--
            (A) oversee all financial management activities relating to 
        the programs and operations of the Capitol Police;
            (B) develop and maintain an integrated accounting and 
        financial system for the Capitol Police, including financial 
        reporting and internal controls, which--
                (i) complies with applicable accounting principles, 
            standards, and requirements, and internal control 
            standards;
                (ii) complies with any other requirements applicable to 
            such systems;
                (iii) provides for--

                    (I) complete, reliable, consistent, and timely 
                information which is prepared on a uniform basis and 
                which is responsive to financial information needs of 
                the Capitol Police;
                    (II) the development and reporting of cost 
                information;
                    (III) the integration of accounting and budgeting 
                information; and
                    (IV) the systematic measurement of performance;

            (C) direct, manage, and provide policy guidance and 
        oversight of Capitol Police financial management personnel, 
        activities, and operations, including--
                (i) the recruitment, selection, and training of 
            personnel to carry out Capitol Police financial management 
            functions; and
                (ii) the implementation of Capitol Police asset 
            management systems, including systems for cash management, 
            debt collection, and property and inventory management and 
            control; and
            (D) the Chief Administrative Officer shall prepare annual 
        financial statements for the Capitol Police and provide for an 
        annual audit of the financial statements by an independent 
        public accountant in accordance with generally accepted 
        government auditing standards.
        (3) Information technology.--The Chief Administrative Officer 
    shall--
            (A) direct, coordinate, and oversee the acquisition, use, 
        and management of information technology by the Capitol Police;
            (B) promote and oversee the use of information technology 
        to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs of the 
        Capitol Police; and
            (C) establish and enforce information technology 
        principles, guidelines, and objectives, including developing 
        and maintaining an information technology architecture for the 
        Capitol Police.
        (4) Human resources.--The Chief Administrative Officer shall--
            (A) direct, coordinate, and oversee human resource 
        management activities of the Capitol Police, except that with 
        respect to uniformed police force personnel, the Chief 
        Administrative Officer shall perform these activities in 
        cooperation with the Chief of the Capitol Police;
            (B) develop and monitor payroll and time and attendance 
        systems and employee services; and
            (C) develop and monitor processes for recruiting, 
        selecting, appraising, and promoting employees.
    (c) Administrative provisions with respect to the Office of 
Administration:
        (1) The Chief Administrative Officer is authorized to select, 
    appoint, employ, and discharge such officers and employees as may 
    be necessary to carry out the functions, powers, and duties of the 
    Office of Administration but he shall not have the authority to 
    hire or discharge uniformed police force personnel.
        (2) The Chief Administrative Officer may utilize resources of 
    another agency on a reimbursable basis to be paid from available 
    appropriations of the Capitol Police.
    (d) No later than 180 days after appointment, the Chief 
Administrative Officer shall prepare, after consultation with the 
Capitol Police Board and the Chief of the Capitol Police, a plan--
        (1) describing the policies, procedures, and actions the Chief 
    Administrative Officer will take in carrying out the 
    responsibilities assigned under this section;
        (2) identifying and defining responsibilities and roles of all 
    offices, bureaus, and divisions of the Capitol Police for 
    budgeting, financial management, information technology, and human 
    resources management; and
        (3) detailing mechanisms for ensuring that the offices, 
    bureaus, and divisions perform their responsibilities and roles in 
    a coordinated and integrated manner.
    (e) No later than September 30, 2001, the Chief Administrative 
Officer shall prepare, after consultation with the Capitol Police Board 
and the Chief of the Capitol Police, a report on the Chief 
Administrative Officer's progress in implementing the plan described in 
subsection (d) and recommendations to improve the budgeting, financial, 
information technology, and human resources management of the Capitol 
Police, including organizational, accounting and administrative 
control, and personnel changes.
    (f) The Chief Administrative Officer shall submit the plan required 
in subsection (d) and the report required in subsection (e) to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and of the 
Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate.
    (g) As of October 1, 2002, unless otherwise determined by the 
Comptroller General, the Chief Administrative Officer established by 
section (a) will cease to be an employee of the General Accounting 
Office and will become an employee of the Capitol Police, and the 
Capitol Police Board shall assume all responsibilities of the 
Comptroller General under this section.
    Sec. 109. (a) Section 1(c) of Public Law 96-152 (40 U.S.C. 206-1) 
is amended by striking ``the annual rate'' and all that follows and 
inserting the following: ``the rate of basic pay payable for level ES-4 
of the Senior Executive Service, as established under subchapter VIII 
of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code (taking into account any 
comparability payments made under section 5304(h) of such title).''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to pay periods beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

           Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $2,371,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ 
more than 43 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide 
Board is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than 10 additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the 
Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the One Hundred Sixth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $1,820,000.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $3,000 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $28,493,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 110. Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
hereafter, the Congressional Budget Office may use available funds to 
enter into contracts for the procurement of severable services for a 
period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year 
and may enter into multi-year contracts for the acquisition of property 
and services, to the same extent as executive agencies under the 
authority of section 303L and 304B, respectively, of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act (41 U.S.C. 253l and 254c).

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                           capitol buildings

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of the Capitol and 
electrical substations of the Senate and House office buildings under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, including furnishings 
and office equipment, including not more than $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and not to exceed $20,000 for 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $43,689,000, of which 
$3,843,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount shall be 
available for the position of Project Manager for the Capitol Visitor 
Center, at a rate of compensation which does not exceed the rate of 
basic pay payable for level ES-2 of the Senior Executive Service, as 
established under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
States Code (taking into account any comparability payments made under 
section 5304(h) of such title): Provided further, That effective on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, any amount made available under this 
heading under the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2000, shall be 
available for such position at such rate of compensation.

                            capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,362,000, of which $125,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                        senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $63,974,000, of which $21,669,000 shall remain available until 
expended.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $32,750,000, of which $123,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                          capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $39,415,000, of which $523,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not more than $4,400,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2001.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $73,592,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used 
to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of 
Government publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members 
of Congress; and printing, binding, and distribution of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the 
recipient, $71,462,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for paper copies of the permanent edition of the 
Congressional Record for individual Representatives, Resident 
Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-
year limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 111. (a) Congressional Printing and Binding For the House 
Through Clerk of House.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any provision of title 44, 
    United States Code, or any other law, there are authorized to be 
    appropriated to the Clerk of the House of Representatives such sums 
    as may be necessary for congressional printing and binding services 
    for the House of Representatives.
        (2) Preparation of estimates.--Estimated expenditures and 
    proposed appropriations for congressional printing and binding 
    services shall be prepared and submitted by the Clerk of the House 
    of Representatives in accordance with title 31, United States Code, 
    in the same manner as estimates and requests are prepared for other 
    legislative branch services under such title, except that such 
    requests shall be based upon the results of the study conducted 
    under subsection (b) (with respect to any fiscal year covered by 
    such study).
        (3) Effective date.--This subsection shall apply with respect 
    to fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding fiscal year.
    (b) Study.--
        (1) In general.--During fiscal year 2001, the Clerk of the 
    House of Representatives shall conduct a comprehensive study of the 
    needs of the House for congressional printing and binding services 
    during fiscal year 2003 and succeeding fiscal years (including 
    transitional issues during fiscal year 2002), and shall include in 
    the study an analysis of the most cost-effective program or 
    programs for providing printed or other media-based publications 
    for House uses.
        (2) Submission to committees.--The Clerk shall submit the study 
    conducted under paragraph (1) to the Committee on House 
    Administration of the House of Representatives, who shall review 
    the study and prepare such regulations or other materials 
    (including proposals for legislation) as it considers appropriate 
    to enable the Clerk to carry out congressional printing and binding 
    services for the House in accordance with this section.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``congressional printing 
and binding services'' means the following services:
        (1) Authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
    distribution of congressional information in any format.
        (2) Preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
    Congressional Record.
        (3) Printing and binding of Government publications authorized 
    by law to be distributed to Members of Congress.
        (4) Printing, binding, and distribution of Government 
    publications authorized by law to be distributed without charge to 
    the recipient.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,328,000, of which $25,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $282,838,000, of which 
not more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2001, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2001 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the 
Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than the 
$6,850,000: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$10,459,575 is to remain available until expended for acquisition of 
books, periodicals, newspapers, and all other materials including 
subscriptions for bibliographic services for the Library, including 
$40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, when specifically 
approved by the Librarian, of special and unique materials for 
additions to the collections: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $2,506,000 is to remain available until expended 
for the acquisition and partial support for implementation of an 
Integrated Library System (ILS): Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $10,000,000 is to remain available until expended 
for salaries and expenses to carry out the Russian Leadership Program 
enacted on May 21, 1999 (113 Stat. 93 et seq.): Provided further, That 
of the total amount appropriated, $5,957,800 is to remain available 
until expended for the purpose of teaching educators how to incorporate 
the Library's digital collections into school curricula, which amount 
shall be transferred to the educational consortium formed to conduct 
the ``Joining Hands Across America: Local Community Initiative'' 
project as approved by the Library: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $404,000 is to remain available until expended for 
a collaborative digitization and telecommunications project with the 
United States Military Academy and any remaining balance is available 
for other Library purposes: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $4,300,000 is to remain available until expended for the 
purpose of developing a high speed data transmission between the 
Library of Congress and educational facilities, libraries, or networks 
serving western North Carolina, and any remaining balance is available 
for support of the Library's Digital Futures initiative.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $38,523,000, of 
which not more than $23,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2001 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d): Provided, That the Copyright 
Office may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, 
That not more than $5,783,000 shall be derived from collections during 
fiscal year 2001 under 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 
1005: Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation 
shall be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than 
$29,283,000: Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the 
amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not more than $4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for activities of the International Copyright 
Institute and for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $48,609,000, of which 
$14,154,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and repair of furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, 
$4,892,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $199,630, of 
which $59,300 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian of Congress, for attendance at 
meetings concerned with the function or activity for which the 
appropriation is made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
be used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or 
compressed work schedule which--
        (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
    grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
        (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
    work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
    the manager or supervisor on another workday.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or 
supervisor'' means any management official or supervisor, as such terms 
are defined in section 7103(a)(10) and (11) of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative 
overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other 
agencies under the authority of sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall not be used to employ more than 65 employees 
and may be expended or obligated--
        (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or in 
    such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
        (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
            (A) to pay for such general or administrative overhead 
        costs as are attributable to the work performed for such 
        agency; or
            (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in 
        appropriations Acts, with respect to any purpose not allowable 
        under subparagraph (A).
    Sec. 204. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification 
of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. (a) For fiscal year 2001, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $92,845,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    Sec. 207. Section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
acquisition of certain real property for the Library of Congress, and 
for other purposes'', approved December 15, 1997 (2 U.S.C. 141 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Transfer Payment by Architect.--Notwithstanding the 
limitation on reimbursement or transfer of funds under subsection (a) 
of this section, the Architect of the Capitol may, not later than 90 
days after acquisition of the property under this section, transfer 
funds to the entity from which the property was acquired by the 
Architect of the Capitol. Such transfers may not exceed a total of 
$16,500,000.''.
    Sec. 208. The Librarian of Congress may convert to permanent 
positions 84 indefinite, time-limited positions in the National Digital 
Library Program authorized in the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1996 for the Library of Congress under the heading, ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' (Public Law 104-53). Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law regarding qualifications and methods of appointment of employees of 
the Library of Congress, the Librarian may fill these permanent 
positions through the non-competitive conversion of the incumbents in 
the ``indefinite-not-to-exceed'' positions to ``permanent'' positions.
    Sec. 209. (a) In addition to any other transfer authority provided 
by law, during fiscal year 2001 and fiscal years thereafter, the 
Librarian of Congress may transfer to and among available accounts of 
the Library of Congress amounts appropriated to the Librarian from 
funds for the purchase, installation, maintenance, and repair of 
furniture, furnishings, and office and library equipment.
    (b) Any amounts transferred pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
merged with and be available for the same purpose and for the same 
period as the appropriation or account to which such amounts are 
transferred.
    (c) The Librarian may transfer amounts pursuant to subsection (a) 
only with the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and Senate.
    Sec. 210. (a)(1) This subsection shall apply to any individual 
who--
        (A) is employed by the Library of Congress Child Development 
    Center (known as the ``Little Scholars Child Development Center'', 
    in this section referred to as the ``Center'') established under 
    section 205(g)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
    1991; and
        (B) makes an election to be covered by this subsection with the 
    Librarian of Congress, not later than the later of--
            (i) December 1, 2000; or
            (ii) 60 days after the date the individual begins such 
        employment.
    (2)(A) Any individual described under paragraph (1) may be 
credited, under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code, for 
service as an employee of the Center before the date of enactment of 
this Act, if such employee makes a payment of the deposit under section 
8411(f)(2) of such title without application of section 8411(b)(3) of 
such title.
    (B) An individual described under paragraph (1) shall be credited 
under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code, for any service as 
an employee of the Center on or after the date of enactment of this 
Act, if such employee has such amounts deducted and withheld from his 
pay as determined by the Office of Personnel Management which would be 
deducted and withheld from the basic pay of an employee under section 
8422 of title 5, United States Code.
    (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, any 
service performed by an individual described under paragraph (1) as an 
employee of the Center is deemed to be civilian service creditable 
under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of 
qualifying for survivor annuities and disability benefits under 
subchapters IV and V of chapter 84 of such title, if such individual 
makes payment of an amount, determined by the Office of Personnel 
Management, which would have been deducted and withheld from the basic 
pay of such individual if such individual had been an employee subject 
to section 8422 of title 5, United States Code, for such period so 
credited, together with interest thereon.
    (4) An individual described under paragraph (1) shall be deemed an 
employee for purposes of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, 
including subchapter III of such title, and may make contributions 
under section 8432 of such title effective for the first applicable pay 
period beginning on or after the date such individual elects coverage 
under this section.
    (5) The Office of Personnel Management shall accept the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress concerning creditable 
service for purposes of this subsection.
    (b) Any individual who is employed by the Center on or after the 
date of enactment of this Act shall be deemed an employee under section 
8901(1) of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of health 
insurance coverage under chapter 89 of such title. An individual who is 
an employee of the Center on the date of enactment of this Act may 
elect coverage under this subsection before December 1, 2000, and 
during such periods as determined by the Office of Personnel Management 
for employees of the Center employed after such date.
    (c) An individual who is employed by the Center shall be deemed an 
employee under section 8701(a) of title 5, United States Code, for 
purposes of life insurance coverage under chapter 87 of such title.
    (d) Government contributions for individuals receiving benefits 
under this section, as computed under sections 8423, 8432, 8708, and 
8906 shall be made by the Librarian of Congress from any appropriations 
available to the Library of Congress.
    (e) The Library of Congress, directly or by agreement with its 
designated representative, shall--
        (1) process payroll for Center employees, including making 
    deductions and withholdings from the pay of employees in the 
    amounts determined under sections 8422, 8432, 8707, and 8905 of 
    title 5, United States Code;
        (2) maintain appropriate personnel and payroll records for 
    Center employees, and transmit appropriate information and records 
    to the Office of Personnel Management; and
        (3) transmit funds for Government and employee contributions 
    under this section to the Office of Personnel Management.
    (f) The Center shall--
        (1) pay to the Library of Congress funds sufficient to cover 
    the gross salary and the employer's share of taxes under section 
    3111 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for Center employees, in 
    amounts computed by the Library of Congress;
        (2) as required by the Library of Congress, reimburse the 
    Library of Congress for reasonable administrative costs incurred 
    under subsection (e)(1);
        (3) comply with regulations and procedures prescribed by the 
    Librarian of Congress for administration of this section;
        (4) maintain appropriate records on all Center employees, as 
    required by the Librarian of Congress; and
        (5) consult with the Librarian of Congress on the 
    administration and implementation of this section.
    (g) The Librarian of Congress may prescribe regulations to carry 
out this section.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$15,970,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $27,954,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $175,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 1999 and 
2000 to depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, 
That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts 
for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to 
the Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the 
purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the 
hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided 
further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to 
carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving 
fund and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of 
Superintendent of Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together 
may not be available for the full-time equivalent employment of more 
than 3,285 workyears (or such other number of workyears as the Public 
Printer may request, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives): 
Provided further, That activities financed through the revolving fund 
may provide information in any format: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall not be used to administer any flexible or 
compressed work schedule which applies to any manager or supervisor in 
a position the grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-
15: Provided further, That expenses for attendance at meetings shall 
not exceed $75,000.

                       GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $10,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
sections 901(5), 901(6), and 901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), and 4081(8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $384,867,000: Provided, That not 
more than $1,900,000 of payments received under 31 U.S.C. 782 shall be 
available for use in fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That not more 
than $1,100,000 of reimbursements received under 31 U.S.C. 9105 shall 
be available for use in fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants. Payments 
hereunder to the Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any 
appropriation from which costs involved are initially financed: 
Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the American Consortium on International Public 
Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an appropriate 
share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including any expenses 
attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International Institute of 
Administrative Sciences.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2001 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation 
in this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, 
That the provisions in this Act for the various items of official 
expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House 
of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.
    Sec. 304. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds 
made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $252,000.
    Sec. 308. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act under 
the heading ``Architect of the Capitol'' or ``Botanic Garden'' shall be 
obligated or expended for a construction contract in excess of 
$100,000, unless such contract includes a provision that requires 
liquidated damages for contractor caused delay in an amount 
commensurate with the daily net usable square foot cost of leasing 
similar space in a first class office building within two miles of the 
United States Capitol multiplied by the square footage to be 
constructed under the contract.
    Sec. 309. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 is amended in the first 
sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``2000'' and inserting ``2001''.
    Sec. 310. Russian Leadership Program. Section 3011 of the 1999 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31; 113 Stat. 
93) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal years 1999 and 2000'' in subsections 
    (a)(1), (b)(4)(B), (d)(3), and (h)(1)(A) and inserting ``fiscal 
    years 2000 and 2001''; and
        (2) by striking ``2001'' in subsection (a)(2), (e)(1), and 
    (h)(1)(B) and inserting ``2002''.
    Sec. 311. (a)(1) Any State may request the Joint Committee on the 
Library of Congress to approve the replacement of a statue the State 
has provided for display in Statuary Hall in the Capitol of the United 
States under section 1814 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 187).
    (2) A request shall be considered under paragraph (1) only if--
        (A) the request has been approved by a resolution adopted by 
    the legislature of the State and the request has been approved by 
    the Governor of the State, and
        (B) the statue to be replaced has been displayed in the Capitol 
    of the United States for at least 10 years as of the time the 
    request is made, except that the Joint Committee may waive this 
    requirement for cause at the request of a State.
    (b) If the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress approves a 
request under subsection (a), the Architect of the Capitol shall enter 
into an agreement with the State to carry out the replacement in 
accordance with the request and any conditions the Joint Committee may 
require for its approval. Such agreement shall provide that--
        (1) the new statue shall be subject to the same conditions and 
    restrictions as apply to any statue provided by a State under 
    section 1814 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 187), and
        (2) the State shall pay any costs related to the replacement, 
    including costs in connection with the design, construction, 
    transportation, and placement of the new statue, the removal and 
    transportation of the statue being replaced, and any unveiling 
    ceremony.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit a State 
to have more than 2 statues on display in the Capitol of the United 
States.
    (d)(1) Subject to the approval of the Joint Committee on the 
Library, ownership of any statue replaced under this section shall be 
transferred to the State.
    (2) If any statue is removed from the Capitol of the United States 
as part of a transfer of ownership under paragraph (1), then it may not 
be returned to the Capitol for display unless such display is 
specifically authorized by Federal law.
    (e) The Architect of the Capitol, upon the approval of the Joint 
Committee on the Library and with the advice of the Commission of Fine 
Arts as requested, is authorized and directed to relocate within the 
United States Capitol any of the statues received from the States under 
section 1814 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 187) prior to the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and to provide for the reception, 
location, and relocation of the statues received hereafter from the 
States under such section.
    Sec. 312. (a) Section 201 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (40 U.S.C. 216c note) is amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' 
each place it appears and inserting ``$14,500,000''.
    (b) Section 201 of such Act is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``Pursuant'', and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) The Architect of the Capitol is authorized to solicit, 
receive, accept, and hold amounts under section 307E(a)(2) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (40 U.S.C. 216c(a)(2)) in 
excess of the $14,500,000 authorized under subsection (a), but such 
amounts (and any interest thereon) shall not be expended by the 
Architect without approval in appropriation Acts as required under 
section 307E(b)(3) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 216c(b)(3)).''.
    Sec. 313. Center for Russian Leadership Development. (a) 
Establishment.--
        (1) In general.--There is established in the legislative branch 
    of the Government a center to be known as the ``Center for Russian 
    Leadership Development'' (the ``Center'').
        (2) Board of trustees.--The Center shall be subject to the 
    supervision and direction of a Board of Trustees which shall be 
    composed of 9 members as follows:
            (A) 2 members appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, 1 of whom shall be designated by the Majority 
        Leader of the House of Representatives and 1 of whom shall be 
        designated by the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (B) 2 members appointed by the President pro tempore of the 
        Senate, 1 of whom shall be designated by the Majority Leader of 
        the Senate and 1 of whom shall be designated by the Minority 
        Leader of the Senate.
            (C) The Librarian of Congress.
            (D) 4 private individuals with interests in improving 
        United States and Russian relations, designated by the 
        Librarian of Congress.
    Each member appointed under this paragraph shall serve for a term 
    of 3 years. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the 
    original appointment and the individual so appointed shall serve 
    for the remainder of the term. Members of the Board shall serve 
    without pay, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, 
    subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in the 
    performance of their duties.
    (b) Purpose and Authority of the Center.--
        (1) Purpose.--The purpose of the Center is to establish, in 
    accordance with the provisions of paragraph (2), a program to 
    enable emerging political leaders of Russia at all levels of 
    government to gain significant, firsthand exposure to the American 
    free market economic system and the operation of American 
    democratic institutions through visits to governments and 
    communities at comparable levels in the United States.
        (2) Grant program.--Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), the Center shall establish a program under which the 
    Center annually awards grants to government or community 
    organizations in the United States that seek to establish programs 
    under which those organizations will host Russian nationals who are 
    emerging political leaders at any level of government.
        (3) Restrictions.--
            (A) Duration.--The period of stay in the United States for 
        any individual supported with grant funds under the program 
        shall not exceed 30 days.
            (B) Limitation.--The number of individuals supported with 
        grant funds under the program shall not exceed 3,000 in any 
        fiscal year.
            (C) Use of funds.--Grant funds under the program shall be 
        used to pay--
                (i) the costs and expenses incurred by each program 
            participant in traveling between Russia and the United 
            States and in traveling within the United States;
                (ii) the costs of providing lodging in the United 
            States to each program participant, whether in public 
            accommodations or in private homes; and
                (iii) such additional administrative expenses incurred 
            by organizations in carrying out the program as the Center 
            may prescribe.
        (4) Application.--
            (A) In general.--Each organization in the United States 
        desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application 
        to the Center at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by 
        such information as the Center may reasonably require.
            (B) Contents.--Each application submitted pursuant to 
        subparagraph (A) shall--
                (i) describe the activities for which assistance under 
            this section is sought;
                (ii) include the number of program participants to be 
            supported;
                (iii) describe the qualifications of the individuals 
            who will be participating in the program; and
                (iv) provide such additional assurances as the Center 
            determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the 
            requirements of this section.
    (c) Establishment of Fund.--
        (1) In general.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
    United States a trust fund to be known as the ``Russian Leadership 
    Development Center Trust Fund'' (the ``Fund'') which shall consist 
    of amounts which may be appropriated, credited, or transferred to 
    it under this section.
        (2) Donations.--Any money or other property donated, 
    bequeathed, or devised to the Center under the authority of this 
    section shall be credited to the Fund.
        (3) Fund management.--
            (A) In general.--The provisions of subsections (b), (c), 
        and (d) of section 116 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
        Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 1105 (b), (c), and (d)), and the provisions 
        of section 117(b) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 1106(b)), shall apply 
        to the Fund.
            (B) Expenditures.--The Secretary of the Treasury is 
        authorized to pay to the Center from amounts in the Fund such 
        sums as the Board of Trustees of the Center determines are 
        necessary and appropriate to enable the Center to carry out the 
        provisions of this section.
    (d) Executive Director.--The Board shall appoint an Executive 
Director who shall be the chief executive officer of the Center and who 
shall carry out the functions of the Center subject to the supervision 
and direction of the Board of Trustees. The Executive Director of the 
Center shall be compensated at the annual rate specified by the Board, 
but in no event shall such rate exceed level III of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5314 of title 5, United States Code.
    (e) Administrative Provisions.--
        (1) In general.--The provisions of section 119 of the 
    Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 1108) shall 
    apply to the Center.
        (2) Support provided by library of congress.--The Library of 
    Congress may disburse funds appropriated to the Center, compute and 
    disburse the basic pay for all personnel of the Center, provide 
    administrative, legal, financial management, and other appropriate 
    services to the Center, and collect from the Fund the full costs of 
    providing services under this paragraph, as provided under an 
    agreement for services ordered under sections 1535 and 1536 of 
    title 31, United States Code.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    (g) Transfer of Funds.--Any amounts appropriated for use in the 
program established under section 3011 of the 1999 Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31; 113 Stat. 93) shall 
be transferred to the Fund and shall remain available without fiscal 
year limitation.
    (h) Effective Dates.--
        (1) In general.--This section shall take effect on the date of 
    enactment of this Act.
        (2) Transfer.--Subsection (g) shall only apply to amounts which 
    remain unexpended on and after the date the Board of Trustees of 
    the Center certifies to the Librarian of Congress that grants are 
    ready to be made under the program established under this section.
    Sec. 314. Review of Proposed Changes to Export Thresholds for 
Computers. Not more than 50 days after the date of the submission of 
the report referred to in subsection (d) of section 1211 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (50 U.S.C. App. 
2404 note), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
an assessment to Congress which contains an analysis of the new 
computer performance levels being proposed by the President under such 
section.

    TITLE IV--EMERGENCY FISCAL YEAR 2000 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to provide additional emergency 
supplemental appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                          Capitol Police Board

                         security enhancements

    For an additional amount for the Capitol Police Board for costs 
associated with security enhancements, under the terms and conditions 
of chapter 5 of title II of division B of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), 
$2,102,000, to remain available until expended, of which--
        (1) $228,000 shall be for the acquisition and installation of 
    card readers for 4 additional access points which are not currently 
    funded under the implementation of the security enhancement plan; 
    and
        (2) $1,874,000 shall be for security enhancements to the 
    buildings and grounds of the Library of Congress:
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Capitol Buildings and Grounds


                          house office buildings

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses for urgent repairs 
to the underground garage in the Cannon House Office Building, 
$9,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Federal Housing Administration


              FHA--General and Special Risk Program Account

    For an additional amount for FHA--General and special risk program 
account for the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 
and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), 
including the cost of loan modifications (as that term is defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended), 
$40,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request 
as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act: Provided further, That the funding under this heading 
shall only be made available upon the submission of a certification by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to the Committees on 
Appropriations that all funds committed, expended, or obligated under 
this heading in the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 were 
committed, expended or obligated in compliance with the Antideficiency 
Act (31 U.S.C. 1341).
    Sec. 401. Appropriations made by this title are available 
immediately upon enactment of this Act.
    This Division may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

                               DIVISION B

    Sec. 1001. (a) The provisions of H.R. 4985 of the 106th Congress, 
as introduced on July 26, 2000, are hereby enacted into law.
    (b) In publishing this Act in slip form and in the United States 
Statutes at Large pursuant to section 112 of title 1, United States 
Code, the Archivist of the United States shall include after the date 
of approval at the end an appendix setting forth the text of the bill 
referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
    Sec. 1002. Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
sections 5105, 5106, and 5109 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2000 
(division B of Public Law 106-246) are repealed, and the provisions 
repealed or amended by such sections shall be revived and have effect 
as if such sections had not been enacted.

SEC. 1003. REPEAL OF EXCISE TAX ON TELEPHONE AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS 
              SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to facilities and services) is amended by striking subchapter 
B.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 4293 of such Code is amended by striking ``chapter 
    32 (other than the taxes imposed by sections 4064 and 4121) and 
    subchapter B of chapter 33,'' and inserting ``and chapter 32 (other 
    than the taxes imposed by sections 4064 and 4121),''.
        (2)(A) Paragraph (1) of section 6302(e) of such Code is amended 
    by striking ``section 4251 or''.
        (B) Paragraph (2) of section 6302(e) of such Code is amended by 
    striking ``imposed by--'' and all that follows through ``with 
    respect to'' and inserting ``imposed by section 4261 or 4271 with 
    respect to''.
        (C) The subsection heading for section 6302(e) of such Code is 
    amended by striking ``Communications Services and''.
        (3) Section 6415 of such Code is amended by striking ``4251, 
    4261, or 4271'' each place it appears and inserting ``4261 or 
    4271''.
        (4) Paragraph (2) of section 7871(a) of such Code is amended by 
    inserting ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (B), by striking 
    subparagraph (C), and by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
    subparagraph (C).
        (5) The table of subchapters for chapter 33 of such Code is 
    amended by striking the item relating to subchapter B.
    (c) Study Regarding Continuing Economic Benefit of Repeal.--
        (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States, after 
    consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Communications 
    Commission, shall study and identify--
            (A) the extent to which the benefits of the repeal of the 
        excise tax on telephone and other communication services under 
        subsection (a) are passed through to individual and business 
        consumers, and
            (B) any actions taken by communication service providers or 
        others that diminish such benefits, including increases in any 
        regulated or unregulated communication service provider charges 
        or increases in other Federal or State fees or taxes related to 
        such service occurring since the date of such repeal.
        (2) Report.--By not later than September 1, 2001, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report 
    regarding the study described in paragraph (1) to the Committee on 
    Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Finance of the Senate.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to amounts paid pursuant to bills first rendered after September 
30, 2000.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.