[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1296 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                           May 1, 1996.
      Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
1296) entitled ``An Act to provide for the administration of certain 
Presidio properties at minimal cost to the Federal taxpayer.'', do pass 
with the following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:

                 TITLE I--THE PRESIDIO OF SAN FRANCISCO

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) the Presidio, located amidst the incomparable scenic 
        splendor of the Golden Gate, is one of America's great natural 
        and historic sites;
            (2) the Presidio is the oldest continuously operated 
        military post in the Nation dating from 1776, and was 
        designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962;
            (3) preservation of the cultural and historic integrity of 
        the Presidio for public use recognizes its significant role in 
        the history of the United States;
            (4) the Presidio, in its entirety, is a part of the Golden 
        Gate National Recreation Area, in accordance with Public Law 
        92-589;
            (5) as part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, 
        the Presidio's significant natural, historic, scenic, cultural, 
        and recreational resources must be managed in a manner which is 
        consistent with sound principles of land use planning and 
        management, and which protects the Presidio from development 
        and uses which would destroy the scenic beauty and historic and 
        natural character of the area and cultural and recreational 
        resources;
            (6) removal and/or replacement of some structures within 
        the Presidio must be considered as a management option in the 
        administration of the Presidio; and
            (7) the Presidio will be managed through an innovative 
        public/private partnership that minimizes cost to the United 
        States Treasury and makes efficient use of private sector 
        resources.

SEC. 102. AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE 
              INTERIOR.

    (a) Interim Authority.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to manage 
leases in existence on the date of this Act for properties under the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary and located at the 
Presidio. Upon the expiration of any such lease, the Secretary may 
extend such lease for a period terminating not later than 6 months 
after the first meeting of the Presidio Trust. The Secretary may not 
enter into any new leases for property at the Presidio to be 
transferred to the Presidio Trust under this title, however, the 
Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements for use and occupancy 
of the Presidio properties which are assignable to the Trust and are 
terminable within 30 days notice by the Trust. Prior to the transfer of 
administrative jurisdiction over any property to the Presidio Trust, 
and notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the United States Code, 
the proceeds from any such lease shall be retained by the Secretary and 
such proceeds shall be available, without further appropriation, for 
the preservation, restoration, operation and maintenance, improvement, 
repair and related expenses incurred with respect to Presidio 
properties. The Secretary may adjust the rental charge on any such 
lease for any amounts to be expended by the lessee for preservation, 
maintenance, restoration, improvement, repair and related expenses with 
respect to properties and infrastructure within the Presidio.
    (b) Public Information and Interpretation.--The Secretary shall be 
responsible, in cooperation with the Presidio Trust, for providing 
public interpretive services, visitor orientation and educational 
programs on all lands within the Presidio.
    (c) Other.--Those lands and facilities within the Presidio that are 
not transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Presidio 
Trust shall continue to be managed by the Secretary. The Secretary and 
the Presidio Trust shall cooperate to ensure adequate public access to 
all portions of the Presidio. Any infrastructure and building 
improvement projects that were funded prior to the enactment of this 
Act shall be completed by the National Park Service.
    (d) Park Service Employees.--(1) Any career employee of the 
National Park Service, employed at the Presidio at the time of the 
transfer of lands and facilities to the Presidio Trust, shall not be 
separated from the Service by reason of such transfer, unless such 
employee is employed by the Trust, other than on detail. The Trust 
shall have sole discretion over whether to hire any such employee or 
request a detail of such employee.
    (2) Any career employee of the National Park Service employed at 
the Presidio on the date of enactment of this title shall be given 
priority placement for any available position within the National Park 
System notwithstanding any priority reemployment lists, directives, 
rules, regulations or other orders from the Department of the Interior, 
the Office of Management and Budget, or other Federal agencies.

SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDIO TRUST.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a wholly owned government 
corporation to be known as the Presidio Trust (hereinafter in this 
title referred to as the ``Trust'').
    (b) Transfer.--(1) Within 60 days after receipt of a request from 
the Trust for the transfer of any parcel within the area depicted as 
Area B on the map entitled ``Presidio Trust Number 1'', dated December 
7, 1995, the Secretary shall transfer such parcel to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Trust. Within one year after the first meeting of 
the Board of Directors of the Trust, the Secretary shall transfer to 
the Trust administrative jurisdiction over all remaining parcels within 
Area B. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection 
in the offices of the Trust and in the offices of the National Park 
Service, Department of the Interior. The Trust and the Secretary may 
jointly make technical and clerical revisions in the boundary depicted 
on such map. The Secretary shall retain jurisdiction over those 
portions of the building identified as number 102 as the Secretary 
deems essential for use as a visitor center. The Building shall be 
named the ``William Penn Mott Visitor Center''. Any parcel of land, the 
jurisdiction over which is transferred pursuant to this subsection, 
shall remain within the boundary of the Golden Gate National Recreation 
Area. With the consent of the Secretary, the Trust may at any time 
transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary any other 
properties within the Presidio which are surplus to the needs of the 
Trust and which serve essential purposes of the Golden Gate National 
Recreation Area. The Trust is encouraged to transfer to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary open space areas which 
have high public use potential and are contiguous to other lands 
administrated by the Secretary.
    (2) Within 60 days after the first meeting of the Board of 
Directors of the Trust, the Trust and the Secretary shall determine 
cooperatively which records, equipment, and other personal property are 
deemed to be necessary for the immediate administration of the 
properties to be transferred, and the Secretary shall immediately 
transfer such personal property to the Trust. Within one year after the 
first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Trust, the Trust and the 
Secretary shall determine cooperatively what, if any, additional 
records, equipment, and other personal property used by the Secretary 
in the administration of the properties to be transferred should be 
transferred to the Trust.
    (3) The Secretary shall transfer, with the transfer of 
administrative jurisdiction over any property, the unobligated balance 
of all funds appropriated to the Secretary, all leases, concessions, 
licenses, permits, and other agreements affecting such property.
    (4) At the request of the Trust, the Secretary shall provide funds 
to the Trust for preparation of such plan, hiring of initial staff and 
other activities deemed by the Trust as essential to the establishment 
of the Trust prior to the transfer of properties to the Trust.
    (c) Board of Directors.--
            (1) In general.--The powers and management of the Trust 
        shall be vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred 
        to as the ``Board'') consisting of the following 7 members:
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior or the 
                Secretary's designee; and
                    (B) six individuals, who are not employees of the 
                Federal Government, appointed by the President, who 
                shall possess extensive knowledge and experience in one 
                or more of the fields of city planning, finance, real 
                estate development, and resource conservation. At least 
                one of these individuals shall be a veteran of the 
                Armed Services. At least 3 of these individuals shall 
                reside in the San Francisco Bay Area. The President 
                shall make the appointments referred to in this 
                subparagraph within 90 days after the enactment of this 
                Act and shall ensure that the fields of city planning, 
                finance, real estate development, and resource 
                conservation are adequately represented. Upon 
                establishment of the Trust, the Chairman of the Board 
                of Directors of the Trust shall meet with the Chairman 
                of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee of the 
                United States Senate and the Chairman of the Resources 
                Committee of the United States House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Terms.--Members of the Board appointed under paragraph 
        (1)(B) shall each serve for a term of 4 years, except that of 
        the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for a term of 2 
        years. Any vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same 
        manner in which the original appointment was made, and any 
        member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the 
        remainder of the term for which his or her predecessor was 
        appointed. No appointed member may serve more than 8 years in 
        consecutive terms.
            (3) Quorum.--Four members of the Board shall constitute a 
        quorum for the conduct of business by the Board.
            (4) Organization and compensation.--The Board shall 
        organize itself in such a manner as it deems most appropriate 
        to effectively carry out the authorized activities of the 
        Trust. Board members shall serve without pay, but may be 
        reimbursed for the actual and necessary travel and subsistence 
        expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties of 
        the Trust.
            (5) Liability of directors.--Members of the Board of 
        Directors shall not be considered Federal employees by virtue 
        of their membership on the Board, except for purposes of the 
        Federal Tort Claims Act and the Ethics in Government Act, and 
        the provisions of chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code.
            (6) Meetings.--The Board shall meet at least three times 
        per year in San Francisco and at least two of those meetings 
        shall be open to the public. Upon a majority vote, the Board 
        may close any other meetings to the public. The Board shall 
        establish procedures for providing public information and 
        opportunities for public comment regarding policy, planning, 
        and design issues through the Golden Gate National Recreation 
        Area Advisory Commission.
            (7) Staff.--The Trust is authorized to appoint and fix the 
        compensation and duties of an executive director and such other 
        officers and employees as it deems necessary without regard to 
        the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
        appointments in the competitive service, and may pay them 
        without regard to the provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter 
        III of chapter 53, title 5, United States Code, relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (8) Necessary powers.--The Trust shall have all necessary 
        and proper powers for the exercise of the authorities vested in 
        it.
            (9) Taxes.--The Trust and all properties administered by 
        the Trust shall be exempt from all taxes and special 
        assessments of every kind by the State of California, and its 
        political subdivisions, including the City and County of San 
        Francisco.
            (10) Government corporation.--(A) The Trust shall be 
        treated as a wholly owned Government corporation subject to 
        chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code (commonly referred 
        to as the Government Corporation Control Act). Financial 
        statements of the Trust shall be audited annually in accordance 
        with section 9105 of title 31 of the United States Code.
                    (B) At the end of each calendar year, the Trust 
                shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee 
                on Resources of the House of Representatives a 
                comprehensive and detailed report of its operations, 
                activities, and accomplishments for the prior fiscal 
                year. The report also shall include a section that 
                describes in general terms the Trust's goals for the 
                current fiscal year.

SEC. 104. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE TRUST.

    (a) Overall Requirements of the Trust.--The Trust shall manage the 
leasing, maintenance, rehabilitation, repair and improvement of 
property within the Presidio under its administrative jurisdiction 
using the authorities provided in this section, which shall be 
exercised in accordance with the purposes set forth in section 1 of the 
Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Golden Gate National Recreation 
Area in the State of California, and for other purposes'', approved 
October 27, 1972 (Public Law 92-589; 86 Stat. 1299; 16 U.S.C. 460bb), 
and in accordance with the general objectives of the General Management 
Plan (hereinafter referred to as the ``management plan'') approved for 
the Presidio.
    (b) The Trust may participate in the development of programs and 
activities at the properties transferred to the Trust. The Trust shall 
have the authority to negotiate and enter into such agreements, leases, 
contracts and other arrangements with any person, firm, association, 
organization, corporation or governmental entity, including, without 
limitation, entities of Federal, State and local governments as are 
necessary and appropriate to finance and carry out its authorized 
activities. Any such agreement may be entered into without regard to 
section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b). The Trust 
shall establish procedures for lease agreements and other agreements 
for use and occupancy of Presidio facilities, including a requirement 
that in entering into such agreements the Trust shall obtain reasonable 
competition. The Trust may not dispose of or convey fee title to any 
real property transferred to it under this title. Federal laws and 
regulations governing procurement by Federal agencies shall not apply 
to the Trust. The Trust, in consultation with the Administrator of 
Federal Procurement Policy, shall establish and promulgate procedures 
applicable to the Trust's procurement of goods and services including, 
but not limited to, the award of contracts on the basis of contractor 
qualifications, price, commercially reasonable buying practices, and 
reasonable competition. Such procedures shall conform to laws and 
regulations related to Federal government contracts governing working 
conditions and wage scales, including the provisions of sections 276a-
276a-6 of title 40, United States Code (Davis-Bacon Act).
    (c) The Trust shall develop a comprehensive program for management 
of those lands and facilities within the Presidio which are transferred 
to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust. Such program shall be 
designed to reduce expenditures by the National Park Service and 
increase revenues to the Federal Government to the maximum extent 
possible. In carrying out this program, the Trust shall be treated as a 
successor in interest to the National Park Service with respect to 
compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and other 
environmental compliance statutes. Such program shall consist of--
            (1) demolition of structures which in the opinion of the 
        Trust, cannot be cost-effectively rehabilitated, and which are 
        identified in the management plan for demolition,
            (2) evaluation for possible demolition or replacement those 
        buildings identified as categories 2 through 5 in the Presidio 
        of San Francisco Historic Landmark District Historic American 
        Buildings Survey Report, dated 1985,
            (3) new construction limited to replacement of existing 
        structures of similar size in existing areas of development, 
        and
            (4) examination of a full range of reasonable options for 
        carrying out routine administrative and facility management 
        programs.
The Trust shall consult with the Secretary in the preparation of this 
program.
    (d) To augment or encourage the use of non-Federal funds to finance 
capital improvements on Presidio properties transferred to its 
jurisdiction, the Trust, in addition to its other authorities, shall 
have the following authorities subject to the Federal Credit Reform Act 
of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.):
            (1) The authority to guarantee any lender against loss of 
        principal or interest on any loan: Provided, That--
                    (A) the terms of the guarantee are approved by the 
                Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (B) adequate subsidy budget authority is provided 
                in advance in appropriations Acts; and
                    (C) such guarantees are structured so as to 
                minimize potential cost to the Federal Government. No 
                loan guarantee under this title shall cover more than 
                75 percent of the unpaid balance of the loan. The Trust 
                may collect a fee sufficient to cover its costs in 
                connection with each loan guaranteed under this Act. 
                The authority to enter into any such loan guarantee 
                agreement shall expire at the end of 15 years after the 
                date of enactment of this title.
            (2) The authority, subject to appropriations, to make loans 
        to the occupants of property managed by the Trust for the 
        preservation, restoration, maintenance, or repair of such 
        property.
            (3) The authority to issue obligations to the Secretary of 
        the Treasury, but only if the Secretary of the Treasury agrees 
        to purchase such obligations after determining that the 
        projects to be funded from the proceeds thereof are credit 
        worthy and that a repayment schedule is established and only to 
        the extent authorized in advance in appropriations acts. The 
        Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use as a public debt 
        transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued 
        under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, and the 
        purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter 
        are extended to include any purchase of such notes or 
        obligations acquired by the Secretary of the Treasury under 
        this subsection. Obligations issued under this subparagraph 
        shall be in such forms and denominations, bearing such 
        maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be 
        prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and shall bear 
        interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding 
        marketable obligations of the United States of comparable 
        maturities. No funds appropriated to the Trust may be used for 
        repayment of principal or interest on, or redemption of, 
        obligations issued under this paragraph.
            (4) The aggregate amount of obligations issued under this 
        subsection which are outstanding at any one time may not exceed 
        $50,000,000.
    (e) The Trust may solicit and accept donations of funds, property, 
supplies, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and 
other private or public entities for the purpose of carrying out its 
duties. The Trust shall maintain a liaison with the Golden Gate 
National Park Association.
    (f) Notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the United States 
Code, all proceeds received by the Trust shall be retained by the 
Trust, and such proceeds shall be available, without further 
appropriation, for the administration, preservation, restoration, 
operation and maintenance, improvement, repair and related expenses 
incurred with respect to Presidio properties under its administrative 
jurisdiction. Upon the Request of the Trust, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall invest excess moneys of the Trust in public debt 
securities with maturities suitable to the needs of the Trust.
    (g) The Trust may sue and be sued in its own name to the same 
extent as the Federal Government. Litigation arising out of the 
activities of the Trust shall be conducted by the Attorney General; 
except that the Trust may retain private attorneys to provide advice 
and counsel. The District Court for the Northern District of California 
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any suit filed against the 
Trust.
    (h) The Trust shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the 
Secretary, acting through the Chief of the United States Park Police, 
for the conduct of law enforcement activities and services within those 
portions of the Presidio transferred to the administrative jurisdiction 
of the Trust.
    (i) The Trust may adopt, amend, repeal and enforce bylaws, rules 
and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be 
conducted and the powers vested in it may be exercised. The Trust is 
authorized, in consultation with the Secretary, to adopt and to enforce 
those rules and regulations that are applicable to the Golden Gate 
National Recreation Area and that may be necessary and appropriate to 
carry out its duties and responsibilities under this title. The Trust 
shall give notice of the adoption of such rules and regulations by 
publication in the Federal Register.
    (j) For the purpose of compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations concerning properties transferred to the Trust by the 
Secretary, the Trust shall negotiate directly with regulatory 
authorities.
    (k) Insurance.--The Trust shall require that all leaseholders and 
contractors procure proper insurance against any loss in connection 
with properties under lease or contract, or the authorized activities 
granted in such lease or contract, as is reasonable and customary.
    (l) Building Code Compliance.--The Trust shall bring all properties 
under its administrative jurisdiction into compliance with Federal 
building codes and regulations appropriate to use and occupancy within 
10 years after the enactment of this title to the extent practicable.
    (m) Leasing.--In managing and leasing the properties transferred to 
it, the Trust considers the extent to which prospective tenants 
contribute to the implementation of the General Management Plan for the 
Presidio and to the reduction of cost to the Federal Government. The 
Trust shall give priority to the following categories of tenants: 
Tenants that enhance the financial viability of the Presidio and tenant 
that facilitate the cost-effective preservation of historic buildings 
through their reuse of such buildings.
    (n) Reversion.--If, at the expiration of 15 years, the Trust has 
not accomplished the goals and objectives of the plan required in 
section 105(b) of this title, then all property under the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Trust pursuant to section 103(b) of 
this title shall be transferred to the Administrator of the General 
Services Administration to be disposed of in accordance with the 
procedures outlined in the Defense Authorization Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 
1809), and any real property so transferred shall be deleted from the 
boundary of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. In the event of 
such transfer, the terms and conditions of all agreements and loans 
regarding such lands and facilities entered into by the Trust shall be 
binding on any successor in interest.

SEC. 105. LIMITATIONS ON FUNDING.

    (a)(1) From amounts made available to the Secretary for the 
operation of areas within the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, not 
more than $25,000,000 shall be available to carry out this title in 
each fiscal year after the enactment of this title until the plan is 
submitted under subsection (b). Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.
    (2) After the plan required in subsection (b) is submitted, and for 
each of the 14 fiscal years thereafter, there are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Trust not more than the amounts specified in such 
plan. Such sums shall remain available until expended. Of such sums, 
not more than $3,000,000 annually shall be available through the Trust 
for law enforcement activities and services to be provided by the 
United States Park Police at the Presidio in accordance with section 
104(h) of this title.
    (b) Within one year after the first meeting of the Board of 
Directors of the Trust, the Trust shall submit to Congress a plan which 
includes a schedule of annual decreasing federally appropriated funding 
that will achieve, at a minimum, self-sufficiency for the Trust within 
15 complete fiscal years after such meeting of the Trust.
    (c) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall 
provide necessary assistance to the Trust in the formulation and 
submission of the annual budget request for the administration, 
operation, and maintenance of the Presidio.

SEC. 106. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE STUDY.

    (a) Three years after the first meeting of the Board of Directors 
of the Trust, the General Accounting Office shall conduct an interim 
study of the activities of the Trust and shall report the results of 
the study to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the United States Senate, and the 
Committee on Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives. The study shall include, but shall not be limited to, 
details of how the Trust is meeting its obligations under this title.
    (b) In consultation with the Trust, the General Accounting Office 
shall develop an interim schedule and plan to reduce and replace the 
Federal appropriations to the extent practicable for interpretive 
services conducted by the National Park Service, and law enforcement 
activities and services, fire and public safety programs conducted by 
the Trust.
    (c) Seven years after the first meeting of the Board of Directors 
of the Trust, the General Accounting Office shall conduct a 
comprehensive study of the activities of the Trust, including the 
Trust's progress in meeting its obligations under this title, taking 
into consideration the results of the study described in subsection (a) 
and the implementation of plan and schedule required in subsection (b). 
The General Accounting Office shall report the results of the study, 
including any adjustments to the plan and schedule, to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
United States Senate, and the Committee on Resources and Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

 TITLE II--MINOR BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND MISCELLANEOUS PARK AMENDMENTS

SEC. 201. YUCCA HOUSE NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundaries of Yucca House National Monument 
are revised to include the approximately 24.27 acres of land generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary--Yucca House National Monument, 
Colorado'', numbered 318/80,001-B, and dated February 1990.
    (b) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service of the Department of the Interior.
    (c) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--Within the lands described in subsection 
        (a), the Secretary of the Interior may acquire lands and 
        interests in lands by donation.
            (2) The Secretary of the Interior may pay administrative 
        costs arising out of any donation described in paragraph (1) 
        with appropriated funds.

SEC. 202. ZION NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Acquisition and Boundary Change.--The Secretary of the Interior 
is authorized to acquire by exchange approximately 5.48 acres located 
in the SW\1/4\ of Section 28, Township 41 South, Range 10 West, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian. In exchange therefor the Secretary is 
authorized to convey all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to approximately 5.51 acres in Lot 2 of Section 5, 
Township 41 South, Range 11 West, both parcels of land being in 
Washington County, Utah. Upon completion of such exchange, the 
Secretary is authorized to revise the boundary of Zion National Park to 
add the 5.48 acres in section 28 to the park and to exclude the 5.51 
acres in section 5 from the park. Land added to the park shall be 
administered as part of the park in accordance with the laws and 
regulations applicable thereto.
    (b) Expiration.--The authority granted by this section shall expire 
two years after the date of the enactment of this title.

SEC. 203. PICTURED ROCKS NATIONAL LAKESHORE BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The boundary of Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore is hereby 
modified as depicted on the map entitled ``Area Proposed for Addition 
to Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore'', numbered 625-80,043A, and dated 
July 1992.

SEC. 204. INDEPENDENCE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The administrative boundary between Independence National 
Historical Park and the United States Customs House along the Moravian 
Street Walkway in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is hereby modified as 
generally depicted on the drawing entitled ``Exhibit 1, Independence 
National Historical Park, Boundary Adjustment'', and dated May 1987, 
which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept and transfer 
jurisdiction over property in accord with such administrative boundary, 
as modified by this section.

SEC. 205. CRATERS OF THE MOON NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundary Revision.--The boundary of Craters of the Moon 
National Monument, Idaho, is revised to add approximately 210 acres and 
to delete approximately 315 acres as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Craters of the Moon National Monument, Idaho, Proposed 1987 
Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 131-80,008, and dated October 1987, 
which map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
    (b) Administration and Acquisition.--Federal lands and interests 
therein deleted from the boundary of the national monument by this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior through 
the Bureau of Land Management in accordance with the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and Federal 
lands and interests therein added to the national monument by this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the national 
monument, subject to the laws and regulations applicable thereto. The 
Secretary is authorized to acquire private lands and interests therein 
within the boundary of the national monument by donation, purchase with 
donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, and when acquired they 
shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the national 
monument, subject to the laws and regulations applicable thereto.

SEC. 206. HAGERMAN FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    Section 302 of the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988 (102 
Stat. 4576) is amended by adding the following new subsection:
    ``(d) To further the purposes of the monument, the Secretary is 
also authorized to acquire from willing sellers only, by donation, 
purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange not to exceed 
65 acres outside the boundary depicted on the map referred to in 
section 301 and develop and operate thereon research, information, 
interpretive, and administrative facilities. Lands acquired and 
facilities developed pursuant to this subsection shall be administered 
by the Secretary as part of the monument. The boundary of the monument 
shall be modified to include the lands added under this subsection as a 
noncontiguous parcel.''.

SEC. 207. WUPATKI NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The boundary of the Wupatki National Monument, Arizona, is hereby 
revised to include the lands and interests in lands within the area 
generally depicted as ``Proposed Addition 168.89 Acres'' on the map 
entitled ``Boundary--Wupatki and Sunset Crater National Monuments, 
Arizona'', numbered 322-80,021, and dated April 1989. The map shall be 
on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Subject to valid 
existing rights, Federal lands and interests therein within the area 
added to the monument by this section are hereby transferred without 
monetary consideration or reimbursement to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the National Park Service, to be administered as part 
of the monument in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable 
thereto.

SEC. 208. NEW RIVER GORGE NATIONAL RIVER.

    Section 1101 of the National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 460m-15) is amended by striking out ``NERI-80,023, dated January 
1987'' and inserting ``NERI-80,028, dated January 1993''.

SEC. 209. GAULEY RIVER NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Section 201(b) of the West Virginia National Interest River 
Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww(b)) is amended by striking 
out ``NRA-GR/20,000A and dated July 1987'' and inserting ``GARI-80,001 
and dated January 1993''.
    (b) Section 205(c) of the West Virginia National Interest River 
Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww-4(c)) is amended by adding 
the following at the end thereof: ``If project construction is not 
commenced within the time required in such license, or if such license 
is surrendered at any time, such boundary modification shall cease to 
have any force and effect.''.

SEC. 210. BLUESTONE NATIONAL SCENIC RIVER.

    Section 3(a)(65) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1274(a)(65)) is amended by striking out ``WSR-BLU/20,000, and dated 
January 1987'' and inserting ``BLUE-80,004, and dated January 1993''.

SEC. 211. ADVISORY COMMISSIONS.

    (a) Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical Park.--(1) This subsection 
under this title may be cited as the ``Na Hoa Pili Kaloko-Honokohau Re-
establishment Act of 1995''.
    (2) Notwithstanding section 505(f)(7) of Public Law 95-625 (16 
U.S.C. 396d(7)), the Na Hoa Pili O Kaloko-Honokohau, the Advisory 
Commission for Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical Park, is hereby re-
established in accordance with section 505(f), as amended by paragraph 
(3) of this section.
    (3) Section 505(f)(7) of Public Law 95-625 (16 U.S.C. 396d(7)), is 
amended by striking ``this Act'' and inserting in lieu thereof, ``the 
Na Hoa Pili Kaloko-Honokohau Re-establishment Act of 1995''.
    (b) Women's Rights National Historical Park.--(1) This subsection 
under this title may be cited as the ``Women's Rights National 
Historical Park Advisory Commission Re-establishment Act of 1995''.
    (2) Not withstanding section 1601(h)(5) of Public Law 96-607 (16 
U.S.C. 410ll(h)(5)), the advisory commission for Women's Rights 
National Historical Park is hereby re-established in accordance with 
section 1601(h), as amended by paragraph (3) of this section.
    (3) Section 1601(h)(5) of Public Law 96-607 (16 U.S.C. 
410ll(h)(5)), is amended by striking ``this section'' and inserting in 
lieu thereof, ``the Women's Rights National Historical Park Advisory 
Commission Re-establishment Act of 1995''.

SEC. 212. AMENDMENT TO BOSTON NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK ACT.

    Section 3(b) of the Boston National Historical Park Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 410z-1(b)) is amended by inserting ``(1)'' before the first 
sentence thereof and by adding the following at the end thereof:
            ``(2) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter 
        into a cooperative agreement with the Boston Public Library to 
        provide for the distribution of informational and interpretive 
        materials relating to the park and to the Freedom Trail.''.

SEC. 213. CUMBERLAND GAP NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Removal of Restrictions.--The first section of the Act of June 
11, 1940, entitled ``An Act to provide for the establishment of the 
Cumberland Gap National Historical Park in Tennessee, Kentucky, and 
Virginia: (54 Stat. 262, 16 U.S.C. 261 et seq.) is amended by striking 
out everything after the words ``Cumberland Gap National Historical 
Park'' and inserting a period.
    (b) Use of Appropriated Funds.--Section 3 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
263) is amended by inserting ``or with funds that may be from time to 
time appropriated for the purpose'', after ``funds''.

SEC. 214. WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS OUTDOOR CLASSROOM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the National Park Service, is authorized to enter into 
cooperative agreements, as specified in subsection (b), relating to 
Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (hereafter in this 
title referred to as ``recreation area'') in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--The cooperative agreements referred to 
in subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) A cooperative agreement with appropriate organizations 
        or groups in order to promote education concerning the natural 
        and cultural resources of the recreation area and lands 
        adjacent thereto. Any agreement entered into pursuant to this 
        paragraph--
                    (A) may provide for Federal matching grants of not 
                more than 50 percent of the total cost of providing a 
                program of such education;
                    (B) shall provide for visits by students or other 
                beneficiaries to federally owned lands within the 
                recreation area;
                    (C) shall limit the responsibility of the Secretary 
                to providing interpretation services concerning the 
                natural and cultural resources of the recreation area; 
                and
                    (D) shall provide that the non-Federal party shall 
                be responsible for any cost of carrying out the 
                agreement other than the cost of providing 
                interpretation services under subparagraph (C).
            (2) A cooperative agreement under which--
                    (A) the Secretary agrees to maintain the facilities 
                at 2600 Franklin Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills, 
                California, for a period of 8 fiscal years beginning 
                with the first fiscal year for which funds are 
                appropriated pursuant to this section, and to provide 
                funding for programs of the William O. Douglas Outdoor 
                Classroom or its successors in interest that utilize 
                those facilities during such period; and in return; or
                    (B) the William O. Douglas Outdoor Classroom, for 
                itself and any successors in interest with respect to 
                such facilities, agrees that at the end of the term of 
                such agreement all right, title, and interest in and to 
                such facilities will be donated to the United States 
                for addition and operation as part of the recreation 
                area.
    (c) Expenditure of Funds.--Federal funds may be expended on non-
Federal property located within the recreation area pursuant to the 
cooperative agreement described in subsection (b)(2).
    (d) Limitations.--(1) The Secretary may not enter into the 
cooperative agreement described in subsection (b)(2) unless and until 
the Secretary determines that acquisition of the facilities described 
in such subsection would further the purposes of the recreation area.
    (2) This section shall not be construed as authorizing an agreement 
by the Secretary for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the William 
O. Douglas Outdoor Classroom or any successor in interest that are not 
directly related to the use of such facilities for environmental 
education and interpretation of the resources and values of the 
recreation area and associated lands and resources.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the 8-year period beginning October 1, 1995, not to 
exceed $2,000,000 to carry out this section.

SEC. 215. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    (a) New River Conforming Amendments.--Title XI of the National 
Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 460m-15, et seq.) is 
amended by adding the following new section at the end thereof:

``SEC. 1117. APPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF OTHER LAW.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements.--The provisions of section 202(e)(1) of 
the West Virginia National Interest River Conservation Act of 1987 (16 
U.S.C. 460ww-1(e)(1)) shall apply to the New River Gorge National River 
in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply to 
the Gauley River National Recreation Area.
    (b) Remnants of Lands.--The provisions of the second sentence of 
section 203(a) of the West Virginia National Interest River 
Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww-2(a)) shall apply to tracts 
of land partially within the boundaries of the New River Gorge National 
River in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions 
apply to the tracts of land only partially within the Gualey River 
National Recreation Area.''.
    (b) Bluestone River Conforming Amendments.--Section 3(a)(65) of the 
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(65)) is amended by 
striking ``leases'' in the fifth sentence and inserting in lieu thereof 
``the lease'' and in the seventh sentence by striking ``such management 
may be continued pursuant to renewal of such lease agreement. If 
requested to do so by the State of West Virginia, the Secretary may not 
terminate such leases and assume administrative authority over the 
areas concerned.'' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``if 
the State of West Virginia so requests, the Secretary shall renew such 
lease agreement with the same terms and conditions as contained in such 
lease agreement on the date of enactment of this paragraph under which 
the State management shall be continued pursuant to such renewal. If 
requested to do so by the State or West Virginia, or as provided in 
such lease agreement, the Secretary may terminate or modify the lease 
and assume administrative authority over all or part of the areas 
concerned.''.

SEC. 216. GAULEY ACCESS.

    Section 202(e) of the West Virginia National Interest River 
Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww-1(e)) is amended by adding 
the following new paragraph at the end thereof:
            ``(4) Access to the river.--Within 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit a 
        report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate setting forth a plan to provide river access for non-
        commercial recreational users within the Gauley River National 
        Recreation Area. The plan shall provide that such access shall 
        utilize existing public roads and rights-of-way to the maximum 
        extent feasible and shall be limited to providing access for 
        such non-commercial users.''.

SEC. 217. VISITOR CENTER

    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to construct a visitor 
center and such other related facilities as may be deemed necessary to 
facilitate visitor understanding and enjoyment of the New River Gorge 
National River and the Gauley River National Recreation Area in the 
vicinity of the confluence of the New and Gauley Rivers. Such center 
and related facilities are authorized to be constructed at a site 
outside of the boundary of the New River Gorge National River or Gauley 
River National Recreation Area unless a suitable site is available 
within the boundaries of either unit.

SEC. 218. EXTENSION.

    For a 5-year period following the date of enactment of this Act, 
the provisions of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act applicable to river 
segments designated for study for potential addition to the wild and 
scenic rivers system under subsection 5(b) of that Act shall apply to 
those segments of the Bluestone and Meadow Rivers which were found 
eligible in the studies completed by the National Park Service in 
August 1983 but which were not designated by the West Virginia National 
Interest River Conservation Act of 1987 as part of the Bluestone 
National Scenic River or as part of the Gauley National Recreation 
Area, as the case may be.

SEC. 219. BLUESTONE RIVER PUBLIC ACCESS.

    Section 3(a)(65) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 
and following) is amended by adding the following at the end thereof: 
``In order to provide reasonable public access and vehicle parking for 
public use and enjoyment of the river designated by this paragraph, 
consistent with the preservation and enhancement of the natural and 
scenic values of such river, the Secretary may, with the consent of the 
owner thereof, negotiate a memorandum of understanding or cooperative 
agreement, or acquire lands or interests in such lands, or both, as may 
be necessary to allow public access to the Bluestone River and to 
provide, outside the boundary of the scenic river, parking and related 
facilities in the vicinity of the area known as Eads Mill.''.

SEC. 220. LIMITATION ON PARK BUILDINGS.

    The 10th undesignated paragraph (relating to a limitation on the 
expenditure of funds for park buildings) under the heading 
``miscellaneous objects, department of the interior'', which appears 
under the heading ``under the department of the interior'', as 
contained in the first section of the Act of August 24, 1912 (37 Stat. 
460), as amended (16 U.S.C. 451), is hereby repealed.

SEC. 221. APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF CHILDREN.

    The first section of the Act of August 7, 1946 (16 U.S.C. 17j-2), 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Provide transportation for children in nearby communities to 
and from any unit of the National Park System used in connection with 
organized recreation and interpretive programs of the National Park 
Service.''.

SEC. 222. FERAL BURROS AND HORSES.

    Section 9 of the Act of December 15, 1971 (16 U.S.C. 1338a), is 
amended by adding at the end thereof the following: ``Nothing in this 
title shall be deemed to limit the authority of the Secretary in the 
management of units of the National Park System, and the Secretary may, 
without regard either to the provisions of this title, or the 
provisions of section 47(a) of title 18, United States Code, use motor 
vehicles, fixed-wing aircraft, or helicopters, or to contract for such 
use, in furtherance of the management of the National Park System, and 
section 47(a) of title 18, United States Code, shall be applicable to 
such use.''.

SEC. 223. AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR RELATING TO 
              MUSEUMS.

    (a) Functions.--The Act entitled ``An Act to increase the public 
benefits from the National Park System by facilitating the management 
of museum properties relating thereto, and for other purposes'' 
approved July 1, 1955 (16 U.S.C. 18f), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (b) of the first section, by striking out 
        ``from such donations and bequests of money''; and
            (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:

``SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONS.

    ``(a) In addition to the functions specified in the first section 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior may perform the following 
functions in such manner as he shall consider to be in the public 
interest:
            ``(1) Transfer museum objects and museum collections that 
        the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum 
        purposes to qualified Federal agencies that have programs to 
        preserve and interpret cultural or natural heritage, and accept 
        the transfer of museum objects and museum collections for the 
        purposes of this Act from any other Federal agency, without 
        reimbursement. The head of any other Federal agency may 
        transfer, without reimbursement, museum objects and museum 
        collections directly to the administrative jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of the Interior for the purpose of this Act.
            ``(2) Convey museum objects and museum collections that the 
        Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes, 
        without monetary consideration but subject to such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary deems necessary, to private 
        institutions exempt from Federal taxation under section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and to non-
        Federal governmental entities if the Secretary determines that 
        the recipient is dedicated to the preservation and 
        interpretation of natural or cultural heritage and is qualified 
        to manage the property, prior to any conveyance under this 
        subsection.
            ``(3) Destroy or cause to be destroyed museum objects and 
        museum collections that the Secretary determines to have no 
        scientific, cultural, historic, educational, esthetic, or 
        monetary value.
    ``(b) The Secretary shall ensure that museum collections are 
treated in a careful and deliberate manner that protects the public 
interest. Prior to taking any action under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall establish a systematic review and approval process, 
including consultation with appropriate experts, that meets the highest 
standards of the museum profession for all actions taken under this 
section.''.
    (b) Application and Definitions.--The Act entitled ``An Act to 
increase the public benefits from the National Park System by 
facilitating the management of museum properties relating thereto, and 
for other purposes'' approved July 1, 1955 (16 U.S.C. 18f), as amended 
by subsection (a), is further amended by adding the following:

``SEC. 3. APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS.

    ``(a) Application.--Authorities in this Act shall be available to 
the Secretary of the Interior with regard to museum objects and museum 
collections that were under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
Secretary for the purposes of the National Park System before the date 
of enactment of this section as well as those museum objects and museum 
collections that may be acquired on or after such date.
    ``(b) Definition.--For the purposes of this Act, the terms `museum 
objects' and `museum collections' mean objects that are eligible to be 
or are made part of a museum, library, or archive collection through a 
formal procedure, such as accessioning. Such objects are usually 
movable and include but are not limited to prehistoric and historic 
artifacts, works of art, books, documents, photographs, and natural 
history specimens.''.

SEC. 224. VOLUNTEERS IN PARKS INCREASE.

    Section 4 of the Volunteers in the Parks Act of 1969 (16 U.S.C. 
18j) is amended by striking out ``1,000,000'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``$1,750,000''.

SEC. 225. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS FOR RESEARCH PURPOSES.

    Section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to improve the 
administration of the National Park System by the Secretary of the 
Interior, and to clarify the authorities applicable to the system, and 
for other purposes'' approved August 18, 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1a-2), is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (i), by striking the period at the end 
        thereof and inserting in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
    ``(j) enter into cooperative agreements with public or private 
educational institutions, States, and their political subdivisions, or 
private conservation organizations for the purpose of developing 
adequate, coordinated, cooperative research and training programs 
concerning the resources of the National Park System, and, pursuant to 
any such agreements, to accept from and make available to the 
cooperator such technical and support staff, financial assistance for 
mutually agreed upon research projects, supplies and equipment, 
facilities, and administrative services relating to cooperative 
research units as the Secretary deems appropriate; except that this 
paragraph shall not waive any requirements for research projects that 
are subject to the Federal procurement regulations.''.

SEC. 226. CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS CLEANUP DAY.

    The Federal Lands Cleanup Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-402; U.S.C. 
169i-169i-1) is amended by striking the terms ``Federal Lands Cleanup 
Day'' or ``Federal Lands National Cleanup Day'' each place they occur 
and inserting in lieu thereof, ``Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup 
Day''.

SEC. 227. FORT PULASKI NATIONAL MONUMENT, GEORGIA.

    Section 4 of the Act of June 26, 1936 (ch. 844; 49 Stat. 1979), is 
amended by striking ``: Provided, That'' and all that follows and 
inserting a period.

SEC. 228. LAURA C. HUDSON VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The visitor center at Jean Lafitte National 
Historical Park, located at 419 Rue Decatur in New Orleans, Louisiana, 
is hereby designated as the ``Laura C. Hudson Visitor Center''.
    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, paper, 
record, map, or any other document of the United States to the visitor 
center referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Laura C. Hudson Visitor Center''.

SEC. 229. UNITED STATES CIVIL WAR CENTER.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the sesquicentennial of the beginning of the Civil War 
        will occur in the year 2011;
            (2) the sesquicentennial will be the last significant 
        opportunity for most Americans alive in the year 2011 to recall 
        and commemorate the Civil War;
            (3) the Civil War Center in Louisiana State University in 
        Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has as its principal missions to create 
        a comprehensive database that contains all Civil War materials 
        and to facilitate the study of the Civil War from the 
        perspectives of all ethnic cultures and all professions; 
        academic disciplines, and occupation;
            (4) the two principal missions of the Civil War Center are 
        consistent with commemoration of the sesquicentennial;
            (5) the missions of the Civil War Institute at Gettysburg 
        College parallel those of the Civil War Center; and
            (6) advance planning to facilitate the four-year 
        commemoration of the sesquicentennial is required.
    (b) Designation.--The Civil War Center, located on Raphael Semmes 
Drive at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``center'') shall be 
known and designated as the ``United States Civil War Center''.
    (c) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, paper, 
record, map, or any other document of the United States to the center 
referred to in subsection (b) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``United States Civil War Center''.
    (d) Flagship Institutions.--The center and the Civil War Institute 
of Gettysburg College, located at 233 North Washington Street in 
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, shall be the flagship institutions for 
planning the sesquicentennial commemoration of the Civil War.

            TITLE III--ROBERT J. LAGOMARSINO VISITOR CENTER

SEC. 301. DESIGNATION.

    The visitor center at the Channel Islands National Park, 
California, is designated as the ``Robert J. Lagomarsino Visitor 
Center''.

SEC. 302. LEGAL REFERENCES.

    Any reference in any law, regulation, document, record, map, or 
other paper of the United States to the visitor center referred to in 
section 301 is deemed to be a reference to the ``Robert J. Lagomarsino 
Visitor Center''.

         TITLE IV--ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK VISITOR CENTER

SEC. 401. VISITOR CENTER.

    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to collect and expend 
donated funds and expend appropriated funds for the operation and 
maintenance of a visitor center to be constructed for visitors to and 
administration of Rocky Mountain National Park with private funds on 
lands located outside the boundary of the park.

             TITLE V--CORINTH, MISSISSIPPI, BATTLEFIELD ACT

SEC. 501. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the sites located in the vicinity of Corinth, 
        Mississippi, that were designated as a National Historic 
        Landmark by the Secretary of the Interior in 1991 represent 
        nationally significant events in the Siege and Battle of 
        Corinth during the Civil War; and
            (2) the landmark sites should be preserved and interpreted 
        for the benefit, inspiration, and education of the people of 
        the United States.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to provide for a center 
for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other 
Civil War actions in the Region and to enhance public understanding of 
the significance of the Corinth Campaign in the Civil War relative to 
the Western theater of operations, in cooperation with State or local 
governmental entities and private organizations and individuals.

SEC. 502. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY AT CORINTH, MISSISSIPPI.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
title as the ``Secretary'') shall acquire by donation, purchase with 
donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, such land and interests in 
land in the vicinity of the Corinth Battlefield, in the State of 
Mississippi, as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the 
construction of an interpretive center to commemorate and interpret the 
1862 Civil War Siege and Battle of Corinth.
    (b) Publicly Owned Land.--Land and interests in land owned by the 
State of Mississippi or a political subdivision of the State of 
Mississippi may be acquired only by donation.

SEC. 503. INTERPRETIVE CENTER AND MARKING.

    (a) Interpretive Center.--
            (1) Construction of center.--The Secretary shall construct, 
        operate, and maintain on the property acquired under section 
        502 a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of 
        Corinth and associated historical events for the benefit of the 
        public.
            (2) Description.--The center shall contain approximately 
        5,300 square feet, and include interpretive exhibits, an 
        auditorium, a parking area, and other features appropriate to 
        public appreciation and understanding of the site.
    (b) Marking.--The Secretary may mark sites associated with the 
Siege and Battle of Corinth National Historic Landmark, as designated 
on May 6, 1991, if the sites are determined by the Secretary to be 
protected by State or local governmental agencies.
    (c) Administration.--The land and interests in land acquired, and 
the facilities constructed and maintained pursuant to this title, shall 
be administered by the Secretary as a part of Shiloh National Military 
Park, subject to the appropriate laws (including regulations) 
applicable to the Park, the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a 
National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 
1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act entitled ``An Act to provide 
for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, 
and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes'', 
approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

SEC. 504. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), there are authorized to 
be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this title.
    (b) Construction.--Of the amounts made available to carry out this 
title, not more than $6,000,000 may be used to carry out section 
503(a).

    TITLE VI--WALNUT CANYON NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY MODIFICATION

SEC. 601. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that:
            (1) Walnut Canyon National Monument was established for the 
        preservation and interpretation of certain settlements and land 
        use patterns associated with the prehistoric Sinaguan culture 
        of northern Arizona.
            (2) Major cultural resources associated with the purposes 
        of Walnut Canyon National Monument are near the boundary and 
        are currently managed under multiple-use objectives of the 
        adjacent national forest. These concentrations of cultural 
        resources, often referred to as ``forts'', would be more 
        effectively managed as part of the National Park System.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to modify the boundaries 
of the Walnut Canyon National Monument (hereafter in this title 
referred to as the ``national monument'') to improve management of the 
national monument and associated resources.

SEC. 602. BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

    Effective on the date of enactment of this Act, the boundaries of 
the national monument shall be modified as depicted on the map entitled 
``Boundary Proposal--Walnut Canyon National Monument, Coconino County, 
Arizona'', numbered 360/80,010, and dated September 1994. Such map 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of 
the Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. 
The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Agriculture, is authorized to make technical and clerical corrections 
to such map.

SEC. 603. ACQUISITION AND TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.

    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands and 
interest in lands within the national monument, by donation, purchase 
with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Federal property 
within the boundaries of the national monument (as modified by this 
title) is hereby transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of the Interior for management as part of the national 
monument. Federal property excluded from the monument pursuant to the 
boundary modification under section 603 is hereby transferred to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture to be 
managed as a part of the Coconino National Forest.

SEC. 604. ADMINISTRATION.

    The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the 
National Park Service, shall manage the national monument in accordance 
with this title and the provisions of law generally applicable to units 
of the National Park Service, including ``An Act to establish a 
National Park Service, and for other purposes'' approved August 25, 
1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4).

SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title.

                     TITLE VII--DELAWARE WATER GAP

SEC. 701. PROHIBITION OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Effective at noon on September 30, 2005, the use 
of Highway 209 within Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area by 
commercial vehicles, when such use is not connected with the operation 
of the recreation area, is prohibited, except as provided in subsection 
(b).
    (b) Local Business Use Protected.--Subsection (a) does not apply 
with respect to the use of commercial vehicles to serve businesses 
located within or in the vicinity of the recreation area, as determined 
by the Secretary.
    (c) Conforming Provisions.--
            (1) Paragraphs (1) through (3) of the third undesignated 
        paragraph under the heading ``ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS'' in 
        chapter VII of title I of Public Law 98-63 (97 Stat. 329) are 
        repealed, effective September 30, 2005.
            (2) Prior to noon on September 30, 2005, the Secretary 
        shall collect and utilize a commercial use fee from commercial 
        vehicles in accordance with paragraphs (1) through (3) of such 
        third undesignated paragraph. Such fee shall not exceed $25 per 
        trip.

           TITLE VIII--TARGHEE NATIONAL FOREST LAND EXCHANGE

SEC. 801. AUTHORIZATION OF EXCHANGE.

    (a) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the requirements in the Act 
entitled ``An Act to Consolidate National Forest Lands'', approved 
March 20, 1922 (16 U.S.C. 485), and section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)) that Federal and 
non-Federal lands exchanged for each other must be located within the 
same State, the Secretary of Agriculture may convey the Federal lands 
described in section 802(a) in exchange for the non-Federal lands 
described in section 802(b) in accordance with the provisions of this 
title.
    (b) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Except as otherwise 
provided in this title, the land exchange authorized by this section 
shall be made under the existing authorities of the Secretary.
    (c) Acceptability of Title and Manner of Conveyance.--The Secretary 
shall not carry out the exchange described in subsection (a) unless the 
title to the non-Federal lands to be conveyed to the United States, and 
the form and procedures of conveyance, are acceptable to the Secretary.

SEC. 802. DESCRIPTION OF LANDS TO BE EXCHANGED.

    (a) Federal Lands.--The Federal lands referred to in this title are 
located in the Targhee National Forest in Idaho, are generally depicted 
on the map entitled ``Targhee Exchange, Idaho-Wyoming--Proposed, 
Federal Land'', dated September 1994, and are known as the North Fork 
Tract.
    (b) Non-Federal Lands.--The non-Federal lands referred to in this 
title are located in the Targhee National Forest in Wyoming, are 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Non-Federal land, Targhee 
Exchange, Idaho-Wyoming--Proposed'', dated September 1994, and are 
known as the Squirrel Meadows Tract.
    (c) Maps.--The maps referred to in subsections (a) and (b) shall be 
on file and available for inspection in the office of the Targhee 
National Forest in Idaho and in the office of the Chief of the Forest 
Service.

SEC. 803. EQUALIZATION OF VALUES.

    Prior to the exchange authorized by section 801, the values of the 
Federal and non-Federal lands to be so exchanged shall be established 
by appraisals of fair market value that shall be subject to approval by 
the Secretary. The values either shall be equal or shall be equalized 
using the following methods:
            (1) Adjustment of lands.--
                    (A) Portion of federal lands.--If the Federal lands 
                are greater in value than the non-Federal lands, the 
                Secretary shall reduce the acreage of the Federal lands 
                until the values of the Federal lands closely 
                approximate the values of the non-Federal lands.
                    (B) Additional federally-owned lands.--If the non-
                Federal lands are greater in value than the Federal 
                lands, the Secretary may convey additional federally 
                owned lands within the Targhee National Forest up to an 
                amount necessary to equalize the values of the non-
                Federal lands and the lands to be transferred out of 
                Federal ownership. However, such additional federally 
                owned lands shall be limited to those meeting the 
                criteria for land exchanges specified in the Targhee 
                National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan.
            (2) Payment of money.--The values may be equalized by the 
        payment of money as provided in section 206(b) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716 (b)).

SEC. 804. DEFINITIONS.

    For purpose of this title:
            (1) The term ``Federal lands'' means the Federal lands 
        described in section 802(a).
            (2) The term ``non-Federal lands'' means the non-Federal 
        lands described in section 802(b).
            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

                       TITLE IX--DAYTON AVIATION

    Section 201(b) of the Dayton Aviation Heritage Preservation Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102-419, approved October 16, 1992), is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In paragraph (2), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (2) In paragraph (4), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (3) In paragraph (5), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (4) In paragraph (6), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (5) In paragraph (7), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.

                        TITLE X--CACHE LA POUDRE

SEC. 1001. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to designate the Cache La Poudre River 
National Water Heritage Area within the Cache La Poudre River Basin and 
to provide for the interpretation, for the educational and 
inspirational benefit of present and future generations, of the unique 
and significant contributions to our national heritage of cultural and 
historical lands, waterways, and structures within the Area.

SEC. 1002. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Area.--The term ``Area'' means the Cache La Poudre 
        River National Water Heritage Area established by section 
        1003(a).
            (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Cache La 
        Poudre River National Water Heritage Area Commission 
        established by section 1004(a).
            (3) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of 
        the State of Colorado.
            (4) Plan.--The term ``Plan'' means the water heritage area 
        interpretation plan prepared by the Commission pursuant to 
        section 1008(a)
            (5) Political subdivision of the state.--The term 
        ``political subdivision of the State'' means a political 
        subdivision of the State of Colorado, any part of which is 
        located in or adjacent to the Area, including a county, city, 
        town, water conservancy district, or special district.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 1003. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CACHE LA POUDRE RIVER NATIONAL WATER 
              HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State of Colorado 
the Cache La Poudre River National Water Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The boundaries of this Area shall include those 
lands within the 100-year flood plain of the Cache La Poudre River 
Basin, beginning at a point where the Cache La Poudre River flows out 
of the Roosevelt National Forest and continuing east along said 
floodplain to a point one quarter of one mile west of the confluence of 
the Cache La Poudre River and the South Platte Rivers in Weld County, 
Colorado, comprising less than 35,000 acres, and generally depicted as 
the 100-year flood boundary on the Federal Flood Insurance maps listed 
below:
            (1) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0146B, April 2, 1979. United States 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance 
        Administration.
            (2) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0147B, April 2, 1979. United States 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance 
        Administration.
            (3) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0162B, April 2, 1979. United States 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance 
        Administration.
            (4) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0163C, March 18, 1986. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (5) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0178C, March 18, 1986. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (6) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080102 0002B, February 15, 1984. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (7) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0179C, March 18, 1986. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (8) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0193D, November 17, 1993. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (9) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0194D, November 17, 1993. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (10) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0208C, November 17, 1993. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (11) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080101 0221C, November 17, 1993. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (12) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0605D, September 27, 1991. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (13) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080264 0005A, September 27, 1991. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (14) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0608D, September 27, 1991. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (15) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0609C, September 28, 1982. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (16) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0628C, September 28, 1982. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (17) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080184 0002B, July 16, 1979. United States 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance 
        Administration.
            (18) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0636C, September 28, 1982. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.
            (19) Flood insurance rate map, larimer county, colorado.--
        Community-Panel No. 080266 0637C, September 28, 1982. Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration.

As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this title, the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a detailed description 
and map of the boundaries of the Area.
    (c) Public Access to Maps.--The maps shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in--
            (1) the offices of the Department of the Interior in 
        Washington, District of Columbia, and Denver, Colorado; and
            (2) local offices of the city of Fort Collins, Larimer 
        Country, the city of Greeley, and Weld County.

SEC. 1004. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CACHE LA POUDRE RIVER NATIONAL WATER 
              HERITAGE AREA COMMISSION

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) in General.--There is established the Cache La Poudre 
        River National Water Heritage Area Commission.
            (2) Function.--The Commission, in consultation with 
        appropriate Federal, State, and local authorities, shall 
        develop and implement an integrated plan to interpret elements 
        of the history of water development within the Area.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 15 
        members appointed not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this title. Of these 15 members--
                    (A) 1 member shall be a representative of the 
                Secretary of the Interior which member shall be an ex 
                officio member;
                    (B) 1 member shall be a representative of the 
                Forest Service, appointed by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, which member shall be an ex officio 
                member;
                    (C) 3 members shall be recommended by the Governor 
                and appointed by the Secretary, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall represent the State;
                            (ii) 1 member shall represent Colorado 
                        State University in Fort Collins; and
                            (iii) 1 member shall represent the Northern 
                        Colorado Water Conservancy District;
                    (D) 6 members shall be representatives of local 
                governments who are recommended by the Governor and 
                appointed by the Secretary, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall represent the city of 
                        Fort Collins;
                            (ii) 2 members shall represent Larimer 
                        County, 1 of which shall represent agriculture 
                        or irrigated water interests;
                            (iii) 1 member shall represent the city of 
                        Greeley;
                            (iv) 2 members shall represent Weld County, 
                        1 of which shall represent agricultural or 
                        irrigated water interests; and
                            (v) 1 member shall represent the city of 
                        Loveland; and
                    (E) 3 members shall be recommended by the Governor 
                and appointed by the Secretary, and shall--
                            (i) represent the general public;
                            (ii) be citizens of the State; and
                            (iii) reside within the Area.
            (2) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the Commission shall 
        be elected by the members of the Commission from among members 
        appointed under subparagraph (C), (D), or (E) of paragraph (1). 
        The chairperson shall be elected for a 2-year term.
            (3) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (c) Terms of Service.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), each member of the Commission shall be appointed for a 
        term of 3 years and may be reappointed.
            (2) Initial members.--The initial members of the Commission 
        first appointed under subsection (b)(1) shall be appointed as 
        follows:
                    (A) 3-year terms.--The following initial members 
                shall serve for a 3-year term:
                            (i) The representative of the Secretary of 
                        the Interior.
                            (ii) 1 representative of Weld County.
                            (iii) 1 representative of Larimer County.
                            (iv) 1 representative of the city of 
                        Loveland.
                            (v) 1 representative of the general public.
                    (B) 2-year terms.--The following initial members 
                shall serve for a 2-year term:
                            (i) The representative of the Forest 
                        Service.
                            (ii) The representative of the State.
                            (iii) The representative of Colorado State 
                        University.
                            (iv) The representative of the Northern 
                        Colorado Water Conservancy District.
                    (C) 1-year terms.--The following initial members 
                shall serve for a 1-year term:
                            (i) 1 representative of the city of Fort 
                        Collins.
                            (ii) 1 representative of Larimer County.
                            (iii) 1 representative of the city of 
                        Greeley.
                            (iv) 1 representative of Weld County.
                            (v) 1 representative of the general public.
            (3) Partial Terms.--
                    (A) Filling vacancies.--A member of the Commission 
                appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the 
                expiration of the term for which a predecessor was 
                appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of 
                their term.
                    (B) Extended service.--A member of the Commission 
                may serve after the expiration of that member's term 
                until a successor has taken office.
    (d) Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall receive no 
compensation for their service on the Commission.
    (e) Travel Expenses.--While away from their homes or regular places 
of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members 
shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in 
the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 
5, United States Code.

SEC. 1005. STAFF OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Staff.--The Commission shall have the power to appoint and fix 
the compensation of such staff as may be necessary to carry out the 
duties of the Commission.
            (1) Appointment and compensation.--Staff appointed by the 
        Commission--
                    (A) shall be appointed without regard to the city 
                service laws and regulations; and
                    (B) shall be compensated without regard to the 
                provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 
                53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                classification of positions and General Schedule pay 
                rates.
    (b) Experts and Consultants.--Subject to such rules as may be 
adopted by the Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and 
intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section 
3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals that 
do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
such title.
    (c) Staff of Other Agencies.--
            (1) Federal.--Upon request of the Commission, the head of a 
        Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursement basis, any of the 
        personnel of the agency to the Commission to assist the 
        Commission in carrying out the Commission's duties. The detail 
        shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status 
        or privilege.
            (2) Administrative support services.--The Administrator of 
        the General Services Administration shall provide to the 
        Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative 
        support services as the Commission may request.
            (3) State.--The Commission may--
                    (A) accept the service of personnel detailed from 
                the State, State agencies, and political subdivisions 
                of the State; and
                    (B) reimburse the State, State agency, or political 
                subdivision of the State for such services.

SEC. 1006. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Hearings.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
        receive such evidence as the Commission considers necessary to 
        carry out this title.
            (2) Subpoenas.--The Commission may not issue subpoenas or 
        exercise any subpoena authority.
    (b) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and 
agencies of the Federal Government.
    (c) Matching Funds.--The Commission may use its funds to obtain 
money from any source under a program or law requiring the recipient of 
the money to make a contribution in order to receive the money.
    (d) Gifts.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (e)(3), 
        the Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out its duties, 
        seek, accept, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or donations of 
        money, personal property, or services received from any source.
            (2) Charitable contributions.--For the purpose of section 
        170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, a gift to the 
        Commission shall be deemed to be a gift to the United States.
    (e) Real Property.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
        except with respect to a leasing of facilities under section 
        6(c)(2), the Commission may not acquire real property or an 
        interest in real property.
            (2) Exception.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Commission 
        may acquire real property in the Area, and interests in real 
        property in the Area--
                    (A) by gift or device;
                    (B) by purchase from a willing seller with money 
                that was given or bequeathed to the Commission; or
                    (C) by exchange.
            (3) Conveyance to public agencies.--Any real property or 
        interest in real property acquired by the Commission under 
        paragraph (2) shall be conveyed by the Commission to an 
        appropriate non-Federal public agency, as determined by the 
        Commission. The conveyance shall be made--
                    (A) as soon as practicable after acquisition;
                    (B) without consideration; and
                    (C) on the condition that the real property or 
                interest in real property so conveyed is used in 
                furtherance of the purpose for which the Area is 
                established.
    (f) Cooperative Agreements.--For the purpose of carrying out the 
Plan, the Commission may enter into cooperative agreements with Federal 
agencies, State agencies, political subdivisions of the State, and 
persons. Any such cooperative agreement shall, at a minimum, establish 
procedures for providing notice to the Commission of any action that 
may affect the implementation of the Plan.
    (g) Advisory Groups.--The Commission may establish such advisory 
groups as it considers necessary to ensure open communication with, and 
assistance from Federal agencies, State agencies, political 
subdivisions of the State, and interested persons.
    (h) Modification of Plans.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may modify the Plan if the 
        Commission determines that such modification is necessary to 
        carry out this title.
            (2) Notice.--No modification shall take effect until--
                    (A) any Federal agency, State agency, or political 
                subdivision of the State that may be affected by the 
                modification receives adequate notice of, and an 
                opportunity to comment on, the modification;
                    (B) if the modification is significant, as 
                determined by the Commission, the Commission has--
                            (i) provided adequate notice of the 
                        modification by publication in the area of the 
                        Area; and
                            (ii) conducted a public hearing with 
                        respect to the modification; and
                    (C) the Governor has approved the modification.

SEC. 1007. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Plan.--The Commission shall prepare, obtain approval for, 
implement, and support the Plan in accordance with section 1008.
    (b) Meetings.--
            (1) Timing.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its 
                first meeting not later than 90 days after the date on 
                which its last initial member is appointed.
                    (B) Subsequent meetings.--After the initial 
                meeting, the Commission shall meet at the call of the 
                chairperson or 7 of its members, except that the 
                commission shall meet at least quarterly .
            (2) Quorum.--Ten members of the Commission shall constitute 
        a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
            (3) Budget.--The affirmative vote of not less than 10 
        members of the Commission shall be required to approve the 
        budget of the Commission.
    (c) Annual Reports.--Not later than May 15 of each year, following 
the year in which the members of the Commission have been appointed, 
the Commission shall publish and submit to the Secretary and to the 
Governor, an annual report concerning the Commission's activities.

SEC. 1008. PREPARATION, REVIEW, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN.

    (a) Preparation of Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
        Commission conducts its first meeting, the Commission shall 
        submit to the Governor a Water Heritage Area Interpretation 
        Plan.
            (2) Development.--In developing the Plan, the Commission 
        shall--
                    (A) consult on a regular basis with appropriate 
                officials of any Federal or State agency, political 
                subdivision of the State, and local government that has 
                jurisdiction over or an ownership interest in land, 
                water, or water rights within the Area; and
                    (B) conduct public hearings within the Area for the 
                purpose of providing interested persons the opportunity 
                to testify about matters to be addressed by the Plan.
            (3) Relationship to existing plans.--The Plan--
                    (A) shall recognize any existing Federal, State, 
                and local plans;
                    (B) shall not interfere with the implementation, 
                administration, or amendment of such plans; and
                    (C) to the extent feasible, shall seek to 
                coordinate the plans and present a unified 
                interpretation plan for the Area.
    (b) Review of Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall submit the Plan to 
        the Governor for his review.
            (2) Governor.--The Governor may review the Plan and if he 
        concurs in the Plan, may submit the Plan to the Secretary, 
        together with any recommendations.
            (3) Secretary.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
        the Plan within 90 days. In reviewing the Plan, the Secretary 
        shall consider the adequacy of--
                    (A) public participation; and
                    (B) the Plan in interpreting, for the educational 
                and inspirational benefit of present and future 
                generations, the unique and significant contributions 
                to our national heritage of cultural and historical 
                lands, waterways, and structures within the Area.
    (c) Disapproval of Plan.--
            (1) Notification by secretary.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves the Plan, the Secretary shall, not later than 60 
        days after the date of disapproval, advise the Governor and the 
        Commission of the reasons for disapproval, together with 
        recommendations for revision.
            (2) Revision and resubmission to governor.--Not later than 
        90 days after receipt of the notice of disapproval, the 
        Commission shall revise and resubmit the Plan to the Governor 
        for review.
            (3) Resubmission to secretary.--If the Governor concurs in 
        the revised Plan, he may submit the revised Plan to the 
        Secretary who shall approve or disapprove the revision within 
        60 days. If the Governor does not concur in the revised Plan, 
        he may resubmit it to the Commission together with his 
        recommendations for further consideration and modification.
    (d) Implementation of plan.--After approval by the Secretary, the 
Commission shall implement and support the Plan as follows:
            (1) Cultural resources.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall assist 
                Federal agencies, State agencies, political 
                subdivisions of the State, and nonprofit organizations 
                in the conservation and interpretation of cultural 
                resources within the Area.
                    (B) Exception.--In providing the assistance, the 
                Commission shall in no way infringe upon the 
                authorities and policies of a Federal agency, State 
                agency, or political subdivision of the State 
                concerning the administration and management of 
                property, water, or water rights held by such agency, 
                political subdivision, or private persons or entities, 
                or affect the jurisdiction of the State of Colorado 
                over any property, water, or water rights within the 
                Area.
            (2) Public awareness.--The Commission shall assist in the 
        enhancement of public awareness of, and appreciation for, the 
        historical, recreational, architectural, and engineering 
        structures in the Area, and the archaeological, geological, and 
        cultural resources and sites in the Area--
                    (A) by encouraging private owners of identified 
                structures, sites, and resources to adopt voluntary 
                measures for the preservation of the identified 
                structure, site, or resource; and
                    (B) by cooperating with Federal agencies, State 
                agencies, and political subdivisions of the State in 
                acquiring, on a willing seller basis, any identified 
                structure, site, or resource which the Commission, with 
                the concurrence of the Governor, determines should be 
                acquired and held by an agency of the State.
            (3) Restoration.--The Commission may assist Federal 
        agencies, State agencies, political subdivisions of the State, 
        and nonprofit organizations in the restoration of any 
        identified structure or site in the Area with consent of the 
        owner. The assistance may include providing technical 
        assistance for historic preservation, revitalization, and 
        enhancement efforts.
            (4) Interpretation.--The Commission shall assist in the 
        interpretation of the historical, present, and future uses of 
        the Area--
                    (A) by consulting with the Secretary with respect 
                to the implementation of the Secretary's duties under 
                section 1010;
                    (B) by assisting the State and political 
                subdivisions of the State in establishing and 
                maintaining visitor orientation centers and other 
                interpretive exhibits within the Area;
                    (C) by encouraging voluntary cooperation and 
                coordination, with respect to ongoing interpretive 
                services in the Area, among Federal agencies, State 
                agencies, political subdivisions of the State, 
                nonprofit organizations, and private citizens, and
                    (D) by encouraging Federal agencies, State 
                agencies, political subdivisions of the State, and 
                nonprofit organizations to undertake new interpretive 
                initiatives with respect to the Area.
            (5) Recognition.--The Commission shall assist in 
        establishing recognition for the Area by actively promoting the 
        cultural, historical, natural, and recreational resources of 
        the Area on a community, regional, statewide, national, and 
        international basis.
            (6) Land exchanges.--The Commission shall assist in 
        identifying and implementing land exchanges within the State of 
        Colorado by Federal and State agencies that will expand open 
        space and recreational opportunities within the flood plain of 
        the Area.

SEC. 1009. TERMINATION OF TRAVEL EXPENSES PROVISION.

    Effective on the date that is 5 years after the date on which the 
Secretary approves the Plan, section 5 is amended by striking 
subsection (e).

SEC. 1010. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Acquisition of Land.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
interests in land within the Area that have been specifically 
identified by the Commission for acquisition by the Federal Government 
and that have been approved for such acquisition by the Governor and 
the political subdivision of the State where the land is located by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. 
Acquisition authority may only be used if such lands cannot be acquired 
by donation or exchange. No land or interest in land may be acquired 
without the consent of the owner.
    (b) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary shall, upon the request of 
the Commission, provide technical assistance to the Commission in the 
preparation and implementation of the Plan pursuant to section 1008.
    (c) Detail.--Each fiscal year during the existence of the 
Commission, the Secretary shall detail to the Commission, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, 2 employees of the Department of the Interior to 
enable the Commission to carry out the Commission's duties under 
section 1007.

SEC. 1011. OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    (a) Duties.--Subject to section 1001, a Federal entity conducting 
or supporting activities directly affecting the flow of the Cache La 
Poudre River through the Area, or the natural resources of the Area 
shall consult with the Commission with respect to such activities;
    (b) Authorization.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary or Administrator of a 
        Federal agency may acquire land in the flood plain of the Area 
        by exchange for other lands within such agency's jurisdiction 
        within the State of Colorado, based on fair market value: 
        Provided, That such lands have been identified by the 
        Commission for acquisition by a Federal agency and the Governor 
        and the political subdivision of the State or the owner where 
        the lands are located concur in the exchange. Land so acquired 
        shall be used to fulfill the purpose for which the Area is 
        established.
            (2) Authorization to convey property.--The first sentence 
        of section 203(k)(3) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
        Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k)(3)) is amended by 
        striking ``historic monument, for the benefit of the public'' 
        and inserting ``historic monument or any such property within 
        the State of Colorado for the Cache La Poudre River National 
        Water Heritage Area, for the benefit of the public''.

SEC. 1012. EFFECT ON ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER STANDARDS, RESTRICTIONS, 
              AND SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Effect on Environmental and Other Standards.--
            (1) Voluntary cooperation.--In carrying out this title, the 
        Commission and Secretary shall emphasize voluntary cooperation.
            (2) Rules, regulations, standards, and permit processes.--
        Nothing in this title shall be considered to impose or form the 
        basis for imposition of any environmental, occupational, 
        safety, or other rule, regulation, standard, or permit process 
        that is different from those that would be applicable had the 
        Area not been established.
            (3) Environmental quality standards.--Nothing in this title 
        shall be considered to impose the application or administration 
        of any Federal or State environmental quality standard that is 
        different from those that will be applicable had the Area not 
        been established.
            (4) Water standards.--Nothing in this title shall be 
        considered to impose any Federal or State water use designation 
        or water quality standard upon uses of, or discharges to, 
        waters of the State or waters of the United States, within or 
        adjacent to the Area, that is more restrictive than those that 
        would be applicable had the Area not been established.
            (5) Permitting of facilities.--Nothing in the establishment 
        of the Area shall abridge, restrict, or alter any applicable 
        rule, regulation, standard, or review procedure for permitting 
        of facilities within or adjacent to the Area.
            (6) Water facilities.--Nothing in the establishment of the 
        Area shall affect the continuing use and operation, repair, 
        rehabilitation, expansion, or new construction of water supply 
        facilities, water and wastewater treatment facilities, 
        stormwater facilities, public utilities, and common carriers.
            (7) Water and water rights.--Nothing in the establishment 
        of the Area shall be considered to authorize or imply the 
        reservation or appropriation of water or water rights for any 
        purpose.
    (b) Restrictions on commission and secretary.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to vest in the Commission or the Secretary the 
authority to--
            (1) require a Federal agency, State agency, political 
        subdivision of the State, or private person (including an owner 
        of private property) to participate in a project or program 
        carried out by the Commission or the Secretary under the title;
            (2) intervene as a party in an administrative or judicial 
        proceeding concerning the application or enforcement of a 
        regulatory authority of a Federal agency, State agency, or 
        political subdivision of the State, including, but not limited 
        to, authority relating to--
                    (A) land use regulation;
                    (B) environmental quality;
                    (C) licensing;
                    (D) permitting;
                    (E) easements;
                    (F) private land development; or
                    (G) other occupational or access issue;
            (3) establish or modify a regulatory authority of a Federal 
        agency, State agency, or political subdivision of the State, 
        including authority relating to--
                    (A) land use regulation;
                    (B) environmental quality; or
                    (C) pipeline or utility crossings;
            (4) modify a policy of a Federal agency, State agency, or 
        political subdivision of the State;
            (5) attest in any manner the authority and jurisdiction of 
        the State with respect to the acquisition of lands or water, or 
        interest in lands or water;
            (6) vest authority to reserve or appropriate water or water 
        rights in any entity for any purpose;
            (7) deny, condition, or restrict the construction, repair, 
        rehabilitation, or expansion of water facilities, including 
        stormwater, water, and wastewater treatment facilities; or
            (8) deny, condition, or restrict the exercise of water 
        rights in accordance with the substantive and procedural 
        requirements of the laws of the State.
    (c) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this title shall diminish, 
enlarge, or modify a right of a Federal agency, State agency, or 
political subdivision of the State--
            (1) to exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction within the 
        Area; or
            (2) to tax persons, corporations, franchises, or property, 
        including minerals and other interests in or on lands or waters 
        within the urban river corridor portions of the Area.
    (d) Access To Private Property.--Nothing in this title requires an 
owner of private property to allow access to the property by the 
public.

SEC. 1013. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated not to 
exceed $50,000 to the Commission to carry out this Act.
    (b) Matching Funds.--Funds may be made available pursuant to this 
section only to the extent they are matched by equivalent funds or in-
kind contributions of services or materials from non-Federal sources.

            TITLE XI--GILPIN COUNTY, COLORADO LAND EXCHANGE

SEC. 1101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) certain scattered parcels of Federal land located 
        within Gilpin County, Colorado, are currently administered by 
        the Secretary of the Interior as part of the Royal Gorge 
        Resource Area, Canon City District, United States Bureau of 
        Land Management;
            (2) these land parcels, which comprises approximately 133 
        separate tracts of land, and range in size from approximately 
        38 acres to much less than an acre have been identified as 
        suitable for disposal by the Bureau of Land Management through 
        its resource management planning process and are appropriate 
        for disposal; and
            (3) even though the Federal land parcels in Gilpin County, 
        Colorado, are scattered and small in size, they nevertheless by 
        virtue of their proximity to existing communities appear to 
        have a fair market value which may be used by the Federal 
        Government to exchange for lands which will better lend 
        themselves to Federal management and have higher values for 
        future public access, use and enjoyment, recreation, the 
        protection and enhancement of fish and wildlife and fish and 
        wildlife habitat, and the protection of riparian lands, 
        wetlands, scenic beauty and other public values.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to authorize, direct, 
facilitate and expedite the land exchange set forth herein in order to 
further the public interest by disposing of Federal lands with limited 
public utility and acquire in exchange therefor lands with important 
values for permanent public management and protection.

SEC. 1102. LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) In General.--The exchange directed by this title shall be 
consummated if within 90 days after enactment of this Act, Lake Gulch, 
Inc., a Colorado Corporation (as defined in section 1104 of this title) 
offers to transfer to the United States pursuant to the provisions of 
this title the offered lands or interests in land described herein.
    (b) Conveyance by Lake Gulch.--Subject to the provisions of section 
1103 of this title, Lake Gulch shall convey to the Secretary of the 
Interior all right, title, and interest in and to the following offered 
lands--
            (1) certain lands comprising approximately 40 acres with 
        improvements thereon located in Larimer County, Colorado, and 
        lying within the boundaries of Rocky Mountain National Park as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Circle C Church Camp'', 
        dated August 1994, which shall upon their acquisition by the 
        United States and without further action by the Secretary of 
        the Interior be incorporated into Rocky Mountain National Park 
        and thereafter be administered in accordance with the laws, 
        rules and regulations generally applicable to the National Park 
        System and Rocky Mountain National Park;
            (2) certain lands located within and adjacent to the United 
        States Bureau of Land Management San Luis Resource Area in 
        Conejos County, Colorado, which comprise approximately 3,993 
        acres and are generally depicted on a map entitled ``Quinlan 
        Ranches Tract'', dated August 1994; and
            (3) certain lands located within the United States Bureau 
        of Land Management Royal Gorge Resource Area in Huerfano 
        County, Colorado, which comprise approximately 4,700 acres and 
        are generally depicted on a map entitled ``Bonham Ranch-
        Cucharas Canyon'', dated June 1995: Provided however, That it 
        is the intention of Congress that such lands may remain 
        available for the grazing of livestock as determined 
        appropriate by the Secretary in accordance with applicable 
        laws, rules, and regulations: Provided further, That if the 
        Secretary determines that certain of the lands acquired 
        adjacent to Cucharas Canyon hereunder are not needed for public 
        purposes they may be sold in accordance with the provisions of 
        section 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 and other applicable law.
    (c) Substitution of Lands.--If one or more of the precise offered 
land parcels identified above is unable to be conveyed to the United 
States due to appraisal or other problems, Lake Gulch and the Secretary 
may mutually agree to substitute therefor alternative offered lands 
acceptable to the Secretary.
    (d) Coveyance by the United States.--(1) Upon receipt of title to 
the lands identified in subsection (a) the Secretary shall 
simultaneously convey to Lake Gulch all right, title, and interest of 
the United States, subject to valid existing rights, in and to the 
following selected lands--
                    (A) certain surveyed lands located in Gilpin 
                County, Colorado, Township 3 South, Range 72 West, 
                Sixth Principal Meridian, Section 18, Lots 118-220, 
                which comprise approximately 195 acres and are intended 
                to include all federally owned lands in section 18, as 
                generally depicted on a map entitled ``Lake Gulch 
                Selected Lands'', dated July 1994;
                    (B) certain surveyed lands located in Gilpin 
                County, Colorado, Township 3 South, Range 72 West, 
                Sixth Principal Meridian, Section 17, Lots 37, 38, 39, 
                40, 52, 53, and 54, which comprise approximately 96 
                acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Lake 
                Gulch Selected Lands'', dated July 1994; and
                    (C) certain unsurveyed lands located in Gilpin 
                County, Colorado, Township 3 South, Range 73 West, 
                Sixth Principal Meridian, Section 13, which comprise 
                approximately 11 acres, and are generally depicted as 
                parcels 302-304, 306 and 308-326 on a map entitled 
                ``Lake Gulch Selected Lands'', dated July 1994: 
                Provided however, That a parcel or parcels of land in 
                section 13 shall not be transferred to Lake Gulch if at 
                the time of the proposed transfer the parcel or parcels 
                are under formal application for transfer to a 
                qualified unit of local government. Due to the small 
                and unsurveyed nature of such parcels proposed for 
                transfer to Lake Gulch in section 13, and the high cost 
                of surveying such small parcels, the Secretary is 
                authorized to transfer such section 13 lands to Lake 
                Gulch without survey based on such legal or other 
                description as the Secretary determines appropriate to 
                carry out the basic intent of the map cited in this 
                subparagraph.
            (2) If the Secretary and Lake Gulch mutually agree, and the 
        Secretary determines it is in the public interest, the 
        Secretary may utilize the authority and direction of this title 
        to transfer to Lake Gulch lands in sections 17 and 13 that are 
        in addition to those precise selected lands shown on the map 
        cited herein, and which are not under formal application for 
        transfer to a qualified unit of local government, upon transfer 
        to the Secretary of additional offered lands acceptable to the 
        Secretary or upon payment to the Secretary by Lake Gulch of 
        cash equalization money amounting to the full appraised fair 
        market value of any such additional lands. If any such 
        additional lands are located in section 13 they may be 
        transferred to Lake Gulch without survey based on such legal or 
        other description as the Secretary determines appropriate as 
        long as the Secretary determines that the boundaries of any 
        adjacent lands not owned by Lake Gulch can be properly 
        identified so as to avoid possible future boundary conflicts or 
        disputes. If the Secretary determines surveys are necessary to 
        convey any such additional lands to Lake Gulch, the costs of 
        such surveys shall be paid by Lake Gulch but shall not be 
        eligible for any adjustment in the value of such additional 
        lands pursuant to section 206(f)(2) of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (as amended by the Federal Land 
        Exchange Facilitation Act of 1988) (43 U.S.C. 1716(f)(2)).
            (3) Prior to transferring out of public ownership pursuant 
        to this title or other authority of law any lands which are 
        contiguous to North Clear Creek southeast of the City of Black 
        Hawk, Colorado in the County of Gilpin, Colorado, the Secretary 
        shall notify and consult with the county and city and afford 
        such units of local government an opportunity to acquire or 
        reserve pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
        of 1976 or other applicable law, such easements or rights-of-
        way parallel to North Clear Creek as may be necessary to serve 
        public utility line or recreation path needs: Provided however, 
        That any survey or other costs associated with the acquisition 
        or reservation of such easements or rights-of-way shall be paid 
        for by the unit or units of local government concerned.

SEC. 1103. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EXCHANGE.

    (a) Equalization of Values.--
            (1) The values of the lands to be exchanged pursuant to 
        this title shall be equal as determined by the Secretary of the 
        Interior utilizing comparable sales of surface and subsurface 
        property and nationally recognized appraisal standards, 
        including, to the extent appropriate, the Uniform Standards for 
        Federal Land Acquisition, the Uniform Standards of Professional 
        Appraisal Practice, the provisions of section 206(d) of the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716(d)), and other applicable law.
            (2) In the event any cash equalization or land sale moneys 
        are received by the United States pursuant to this Act, any 
        such moneys shall be retained by the Secretary of the Interior 
        and may be utilized by the Secretary until fully expended to 
        purchase from willing sellers land or water rights, or a 
        combination thereof, to augment wildlife habitat and protect 
        and restore wetlands in the Bureau of Land Management's Blanca 
        Wetlands, Alamosa County, Colorado.
            (3) Any water rights acquired by the United States pursuant 
        to this section shall be obtained by the Secretary of the 
        Interior in accordance with all applicable provisions of 
        Colorado law, including the requirement to change the time, 
        place, and type of use of said water rights through the 
        appropriate State legal proceedings and to comply with any 
        terms, conditions, or other provisions contained in an 
        applicable decree of the Colorado Water Court. The use of any 
        water rights acquired pursuant to this section shall be limited 
        to water that can be used or exchanged for water that can be 
        used on the Blanca Wetlands. Any requirement or proposal to 
        utilize facilities of the San Luis Valley Project, Closed Basin 
        Diversion, in order to effectuate the use of any such water 
        rights shall be subject to prior approval of the Rio Grande 
        Water Conservation District.
    (b) Restrictions on Selected Lands.--(1) Conveyance of the selected 
lands to Lake Gulch pursuant to this title shall be contingent upon 
Lake Gulch executing an agreement with the United States prior to such 
conveyance, the terms of which are acceptable to the Secretary of the 
Interior, and which--
            (A) grant the United States a covenant that none of the 
        selected lands (which currently lie outside the legally 
        approved gaming area) shall ever be used for purposes of gaming 
        should the current legal gaming area ever be expanded by the 
        State of Colorado; and
            (B) permanently hold the United States harmless for 
        liability and indemnify the United States against all costs 
        arising from any activities, operations (including the storing, 
        handling, and dumping of hazardous materials or substances) or 
        other acts conducted by Lake Gulch or its employees, agents, 
        successors or assigns on the selected lands after their 
        transfer to Lake Gulch: Provided however, That nothing in this 
        title shall be construed as either diminishing or increasing 
        any responsibility or liability of the United States based on 
        the condition of the selected lands prior to or on the date of 
        their transfer to Lake Gulch.
    (2) Conveyance of the selected lands to Lake Gulch pursuant to this 
title shall be subject to the existing easement for Gilpin County Road 
6.
    (3) The above terms and restrictions of this subsection shall not 
be considered in determining, or result in any diminution in, the fair 
market value of the selected land for purposes of the appraisals of the 
selected land required pursuant to section 1102 of this title.
    (c) Revocation of Withdrawal.--The Public Water Reserve established 
by Executive order dated April 17, 1926 (Public Water Reserve 107), 
Serial Number Colorado 17321, is hereby revoked insofar as it affects 
the NW\1/4\SW\1/4\ of Section 17, Township 3 South, Range 72 West, 
Sixth Principal Meridian, which covers a portion of the selected lands 
identified in this title.

SEC. 1104. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--As used in this title:
            (1) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (2) The term ``Lake Gulch'' means Lake Gulch, Inc., a 
        Colorado corporation, or its successors, heirs or assigns.
            (3) The term ``offered land'' means lands to be conveyed to 
        the United States pursuant to this title.
            (4) The term ``selected land'' means lands to be 
        transferred to Lake Gulch, Inc., or its successors, heirs or 
        assigns pursuant to this title.
            (5) The term ``Blanca Wetlands'' means an area of land 
        comprising approximately 9,290 acres, as generally depicted on 
        a map entitled ``Blanca Wetlands'', dated August 1994, or such 
        land as the Secretary may add thereto by purchase from willing 
        sellers after the date of enactment of this Act utilizing funds 
        provided by this title or such other moneys as Congress may 
        appropriate.
    (b) Time Requirement for Completing Transfer.--It is the intent of 
Congress that unless the Secretary and Lake Gulch mutually agree 
otherwise the exchange of lands authorized and directed by this title 
shall be completed not later than 6 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act. In the event the exchange cannot be consummated within 
such 6-month time period, the Secretary, upon application by Lake 
Gulch, is directed to sell to Lake Gulch at appraised fair market value 
any or all of the parcels (comprising a total of approximately 11 
acres) identified in section 1102(d)(1)(C) of this title as long as the 
parcel or parcels applied for are not under formal application for 
transfer to a qualified unit of local government.
    (c) Administration of Lands Acquired by United States.--In 
accordance with the provisions of section 206(c) of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(c)), all lands 
acquired by the United States pursuant to this title shall upon 
acceptance of title by the United States and without further action by 
the Secretary concerned become part of and be managed as part of the 
administrative unit or area within which they are located.

          TITLE XII--BUTTE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA LAND CONVEYANCE

SECTIN 1201. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) certain landowners in Butte County, California who own 
        property adjacent to the Plumas National Forest have been 
        adversely affected by certain erroneous surveys;
            (2) these landowners have occupied or improved their 
        property in good faith and in reliance on erroneous surveys of 
        their properties that they believed were accurate; and
            (3) the 1992 Bureau of Land Management dependent resurvey 
        of the Plumas National Forest will correctly establish accurate 
        boundaries between such forest and private lands.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to authorize and 
direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey, without consideration, 
certain lands in Butte County, California, to persons claiming to have 
been deprived of title to such lands.

SEC. 1202. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purpose of this title--
            (1) the term ``affected lands'' means those Federal lands 
        located in the Plumas National Forest in Butte County, 
        California, in sections 11, 12, 13, and 14, township 21 north, 
        range 5 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, as described by the 
        dependent resurvey by the Bureau of Land Management conducted 
        in 1992, and subsequent Forest Service land line location 
        surveys, including all adjoining parcels where the property 
        line as identified by the 1992 BLM dependent resurvey and 
        National Forest boundary lines before such dependent resurvey 
        are not coincident;
            (2) the term ``claimant'' means an owner of real property 
        in Butte County, California, whose real property adjoins Plumas 
        National Forest lands described in subsection (a), who claims 
        to have been deprived by the United States of title to property 
        as a result of previous erroneous surveys; and
            (3) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

SEC. 1203. CONVEYANCE OF LANDS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is 
authorized and directed to convey, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to affected lands as 
described in section 1202(1), to any claimant or claimants, upon proper 
application from such claimant or claimants, as provided in section 
1204.

SEC. 1204. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Notification.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, claimants shall notify the Secretary, through 
the Forest Supervisor of the Plumas National Forest, in writing of 
their claim to affected lands. Such claim shall be accompanied by--
            (1) a description of the affected lands claimed;
            (2) information relating to the claim of ownership of such 
        lands; and
            (3) such other information as the Secretary may require.
    (b) Issuance of Deed.--(1) Upon a determination by the Secretary 
that issuance of a deed for affected lands is consistent with the 
purpose and requirements of this title, the Secretary shall issue a 
quit claim deed to such claimant for the parcel to be conveyed.
    (2) Prior to the issuance of any such deed as provided in paragraph 
(1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
            (A) the parcel or parcels to be conveyed have been surveyed 
        in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the 
        Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, dated 
        November 11, 1989;
            (B) all new property lines established by such surveys have 
        been monumented and marked; and
            (C) all terms and conditions necessary to protect third 
        party and Government Rights-of-Way or other interests are 
        included in the deed.
    (3) The Federal Government shall be responsible for all surveys and 
property line markings necessary to implement this subsection.
    (c) Notification to BLM.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
Secretary of the Interior an authenticated copy of each deed issued 
pursuant to this title no later than 30 days after the date such deed 
is issued.

SEC. 1205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as necessary to 
carry out the purposes of this title.

           TITLE XIII--CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS CLEANUP DAY

SEC. 1301. CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS CLEANUP DAY.

    The Federal Lands Cleanup Act of 1985 (36 U.S.C. 169i-169i-1) is 
amended by striking the terms ``Federal Lands Cleanup Day'' each place 
it appears and inserting ``Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day''.

                TITLE XIV--ANAKTUVUK PASS LAND EXCHANGE

SEC. 1401. FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 
        Stat. 2371), enacted on December 2, 1980, established Gates of 
        the Arctic National Park and Preserve and Gates of the Arctic 
        Wilderness. The village of Anaktuvuk Pass, located in the 
        highlands of the central Brooks Range, is virtually surrounded 
        by these national park and wilderness lands and is the only 
        Native village located within the boundary of a National Park 
        System unit in Alaska.
            (2) Unlike most other Alaskan Native communities, the 
        village of Anaktuvuk Pass is not located on a major river, 
        lake, or coastline that can be used as a means of access. The 
        residents of Anaktuvuk Pass have relied increasingly on snow 
        machines in winter and all-terrain vehicles in summer as their 
        primary means of access to pursue caribou and other subsistence 
        resources.
            (3) In a 1983 land exchange agreement, linear easements 
        were reserved by the Inupiat Eskimo people for use of all-
        terrain vehicles across certain national park lands, mostly 
        along stream and river banks. These linear easements proved 
        unsatisfactory, because they provided inadequate access to 
        subsistence resources while causing excessive environmental 
        impact from concentrated use.
            (4) The National Park Service and the Nunamiut Corporation 
        initiated discussions in 1985 to address concerns over the use 
        of all-terrain vehicles on park and wilderness land. These 
        discussions resulted in an agreement, originally executed in 
        1992 and thereafter amended in 1993 and 1994, among the 
        National Park Service, Nunamiut Corporation, the City of 
        Anaktuvuk Pass, and Arctic Slope Regional Corporation. Full 
        effectuation of this agreement, as amended, by its terms 
        requires ratification by the Congress.

SEC. 1402. RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.

    (a) Ratification.--
            (1) In general.--The terms, conditions, procedures, 
        covenants, reservations and other provisions set forth in the 
        document entitled ``Donation, Exchange of Lands and Interests 
        in Lands and Wilderness Redesignation Agreement Among Arctic 
        Slope Regional Corporation, Nunamiut Corporation, City of 
        Anaktuvuk Pass and the United States of America'' (hereinafter 
        referred to in this title as ``the Agreement''), executed by 
        the parties on December 17, 1992, as amended, are hereby 
        incorporated in this title, are ratified and confirmed, and set 
        forth the obligations and commitments of the United States, 
        Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, Nunamiut Corporation and the 
        City of Anaktuvuk Pass, as a matter of Federal law.
            (2) Land acquisition.--Lands acquired by the United States 
        pursuant to the Agreement shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the 
        ``Secretary'') as part of Gates of the Arctic National Park and 
        Preserve, subject to the laws and regulations applicable 
        thereto.
    (b) Maps.--The maps set forth as Exhibits C1, C2, and D through I 
to the Agreement depict the lands subject to the conveyances, retention 
of surface access rights, access easements and all-terrain vehicle 
easements. These lands are depicted in greater detail on a map entitled 
``Land Exchange Actions, Proposed Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and 
Wilderness Redesignation, Gates of the Arctic National Park and 
Preserve'', Map No. 185/80,039, dated April 1994, and on file at the 
Alaska Regional Office of the National Park Service and the offices of 
Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve in Fairbanks, Alaska. 
Written legal descriptions of these lands shall be prepared and made 
available in the above offices. In case of any discrepancies, Map No. 
185/80,039 shall be controlling.

SEC. 1403. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM WILDERNESS.

    (a) Gates of the Arctic Wilderness.--
            (1) Redesignation.--Section 701(2) of the Alaska National 
        Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2371, 2417) 
        establishing the Gates of the Arctic Wilderness is hereby 
        amended with the addition of approximately 56,825 acres as 
        wilderness and the rescission of approximately 73,993 acres as 
        wilderness, thus revising the Gates of the Arctic Wilderness to 
        approximately 7,034,832 acres.
            (2) Map.--The lands redesignated by paragraph (1) are 
        depicted on a map entitled ``Wilderness Actions, Proposed 
        Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness Redesignation, 
        Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve'', Map No. 185/
        80,040, dated April 1994, and on file at the Alaska Regional 
        Office of the National Park Service and the office of Gates of 
        the Arctic National Park and Preserve in Fairbanks, Alaska.
    (b) Noatak National Preserve.--Section 201(8)(a) of the Alaska 
National Interest Land Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2380) is amended by--
            (1) striking ``approximately six million four hundred and 
        sixty thousand acres'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``approximately 6,477,168 acres''; and
            (2) inserting ``and the map entitled ``Noatak National 
        Preserve and Noatak Wilderness Addition'' dated September 
        1994'' after ``July 1980''.
    (c) Noatak Wilderness.--Section 701(7) of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2417) is amended by striking 
``approximately five million eight hundred thousand acres'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``approximately 5,817,168 acres''.

SEC. 1404. CONFORMANCE WITH OTHER LAW.

    (a) Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.--All of the lands, or 
interests therein, conveyed to and received by Arctic Slope Regional 
Corporation or Nunamiut Corporation pursuant to the Agreement shall be 
deemed conveyed and received pursuant to exchanges under section 22(f) 
of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601, 
1621(f)). All of the lands or interests in lands conveyed pursuant to 
the Agreement shall be conveyed subject to valid existing rights.
    (b) Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act.--Except to the 
extent specifically set forth in this title or the Agreement, nothing 
in this title or in the Agreement shall be construed to enlarge or 
diminish the rights, privileges, or obligations of any person, 
including specifically the preference for subsistence uses and access 
to subsistence resources provided under the Alaska National Interest 
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).

          TITLE XV--ALASKA PENINSULA SUBSURFACE CONSOLIDATION

SEC. 1501. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term agency--
                    (A) means--
                            (i) any instrumentality of the United 
                        States; and
                            (ii) any Government corporation (as defined 
                        in section 9101(1) of title 31, United States 
                        Code); and
                    (B) includes any element of an agency.
            (2) Alaska native corporation.--The term ``Alaska Native 
        Corporation'' has the same meaning as is provided for ``Native 
        Corporation'' in section 3(m) of the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(m)).
            (3) Federal lands or interest therein.--The term ``Federal 
        lands or interests therein'' means any lands or properties 
        owned by the United States (i) which are administered by the 
        Secretary, or (ii) which are subject to a lease to third 
        parties, or (iii) which have been made available to the 
        Secretary for exchange under this section through the 
        concurrence of the director of the agency administering such 
        lands or properties: Provided however, That excluded from such 
        lands shall be those lands which are within an existing 
        conservation system unit as defined in section 102(4) of the 
        Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
        3102(4)), and those lands the mineral interest for which are 
        currently under mineral lease.
            (4) Koniag.--The term ``Koniag'' means Koniag, 
        Incorporated, which is a regional Corporation.
            (5) Regional corporation.--The term ``Regional 
        Corporation'' has the same meaning as is provided in section 
        3(g) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1602(g)).
            (6) Secretary.--Except as otherwise provided, the term 
        ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior.
            (7) Selection rights.--The term ``selection rights'' means 
        those rights granted to Koniag, pursuant to subsections (a) and 
        (b) of section 12, and section 14(h)(8), of the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1611 and 1613(h)(8)), to 
        receive title to the oil and gas rights and other interests in 
        the subsurface estate of the approximately 275,000 acres of 
        public lands in the State of Alaska identified as ``Koniag 
        Selections'' on the map entitled ``Koniag Interest Lands, 
        Alaska Peninsula'', dated May 1989.

SEC. 1502. VALUATION OF KONIAG SELECTION RIGHTS.

    (a) Pursuant to subsection (b) hereof, the Secretary shall value 
the Selection Rights which Koniag possesses within the boundaries of 
Aniakchak National Monument and Preserve, Alaska Peninsula National 
Wildlife Refuge, and Becharof National Wildlife Refuge.
    (b) Value.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the selection rights shall be 
        equal to the fair market value of--
                    (A) the oil and gas interests in the lands or 
                interests in lands that are the subject of the 
                selection rights; and
                    (B) in the case of the lands or interests in lands 
                for which Koniag is to receive the entire subsurface 
                estate, the subsurface estate of the lands or interests 
                in lands that are the subject of the selection rights.
            (2) Appraisal.--
                    (A) Selection of Appraiser.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 90 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this title the 
                        Secretary and Koniag shall meet to select a 
                        qualified appraiser to conduct an appraisal of 
                        the selection rights. Subject to clause (ii), 
                        the appraiser shall be selected by the mutual 
                        agreement of the Secretary and Koniag.
                            (ii) Failure to agree.--If the Secretary 
                        and Koniag fail to agree on an appraiser by the 
                        date that is 60 days after the date of the 
                        initial meeting referred to in clause (i), the 
                        Secretary and Koniag shall, by the date that is 
                        not later than 90 days after the date of the 
                        initial meeting, each designate an appraiser 
                        who is qualified to perform the appraisal. The 
                        2 appraisers so identified shall select a third 
                        qualified appraiser who shall perform the 
                        appraisal.
                    (B) Standards and methodology.--The appraisal shall 
                be conducted in conformity with the standards of the 
                Appraisal Foundation (as defined in section 1121(9) of 
                the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and 
                Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3350(9)).
                    (C) Submission of appraisal report.--Not later than 
                180 days after the selection of an appraiser pursuant 
                to subparagraph (A), the appraiser shall submit to the 
                Secretary and to Koniag a written appraisal report 
                specifying the value of the selection rights and the 
                methodology used to arrive at the value.
            (3) Determination of value.--
                    (A) Determination by the secretary.--Not later than 
                60 days after the date of the receipt of the appraisal 
                report under paragraph (2)(c), the Secretary shall 
                determine the value of the selection rights and shall 
                notify Koniag of the determination.
                    (B) Alternative determination of value.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), if 
                        Koniag does not agree with the value determined 
                        by the Secretary under subparagraph (A), the 
                        procedures specified in section 206(d) of the 
                        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                        (43 U.S.C. 1716 (d)) shall be used to establish 
                        the value.
                            (ii) Average value limitation.--The average 
                        value per acre of the selection rights shall 
                        not be less than the value utilizing the risk 
                        adjusted discount cash flow methodology, but in 
                        no event may exceed $300.

SEC. 1503. KONIAG ACCOUNT.

    (a) In general.--
            (1) The Secretary shall enter into negotiations for an 
        agreement or agreements to exchange Federal lands or interests 
        therein which are in the State of Alaska for the Selection 
        Rights.
            (2) If the value of the Federal property to be exchanged is 
        less than the value of the Selection Rights established in 
        section 1501, and if such Federal property to be exchanged is 
        not generating receipts to the Federal Government in excess of 
        $1,000,000 per year, then the Secretary may exchange the 
        Federal property for that portion of the Selection Rights 
        having a value equal to that of the Federal property. The 
        remaining selection rights shall remain available for 
        additional exchanges.
            (3) For the purposes of any exchange to be consummated 
        under this title, if less than all the selection rights are 
        being exchanged, then the value of the selection rights being 
        exchanged shall be equal to the number of acres of selection 
        rights being exchanged multiplied by a fraction, the numerator 
        of which is the value of all the selection rights as determined 
        pursuant to section 1502 hereof and the denominator of which is 
        the total number of acres of selection rights.
                    (B) Additional exchanges.--If, after ten years from 
                the date of the enactment of this title, the Secretary 
                was unable to conclude such exchanges as may be 
                required to acquire all of the selection rights, he 
                shall conclude exchanges for the remaining selection 
                rights for such Federal property as may be identified 
                by Koniag, which property is available for transfer to 
                the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary under 
                any provision of law and which property, at the time of 
                the proposed transfer to Koniag is not generating 
                receipts to the Federal Government in excess of 
                $1,000,000 per year. The Secretary shall keep Koniag 
                advised in a timely manner as to which properties may 
                be available for such transfer. Upon receipt of such 
                identification by Koniag, the Secretary shall request 
                in a timely manner the transfer of such identified 
                property to the administrative jurisdiction of the 
                Department of the Interior. Such property shall not be 
                subject to the geographic limitations of section 206(b) 
                of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and may 
                be retained by the Secretary solely for purposes of 
                transferring it to Koniag to complete the exchange. 
                Should the value of the property so identified by 
                Koniag be in excess of the value of the remaining 
                selection rights, then Koniag shall have the option of 
                (i) declining to proceed with the exchange and 
                identifying other property or (ii) paying the 
                difference in value between the property rights.
    (c) Revenues.--Any property received by Koniag in an exchange 
entered into pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be 
deemed to be an interest in the subsurface for purposes of section 7(i) 
of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.): 
Provided however, That should Koniag make a payment to equalize the 
value in any such exchange, then Koniag will be deemed to hold an 
undivided interest in the property equal in value to such payment which 
interest shall not be subject to the provisions of section 9(j).

SEC. 1504. CERTAIN CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Interests in Land.--For the purposes of section 21(c) of the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1620(e)), the receipt of 
consideration, including, but not limited to, lands, cash or other 
property, by a Native Corporation for the relinquishment to the United 
States of land selection rights granted to any Native Corporation under 
such Act shall be deemed to be an interest in land.
    (b) Authority to Appoint and Remove Trustee.--In establishing a 
Settlement Trust under section 39 of such Act (43 U.S.C. 1629c), Koniag 
may delegate, in whole or in part, the authority granted to Koniag 
under subsection (b)(2) of such section to any entity that Koniag may 
select without affecting the status of the trust as a Settlement Trust 
under such section.

                  TITLE XVI--TAOS PUEBLO LAND TRANSFER

SEC. 1601. LAND TRANSFER.

    (a) Transfer.--The parcel of land described in subsection (b) is 
hereby transferred without consideration to the Secretary of the 
Interior to be held in trust for the Pueblo de Taos. Such parcel shall 
be a part of the Pueblo de Taos Reservation and shall be managed in 
accordance with section 4 of the Act of May 31, 1933 (48 Stat. 108) (as 
amended, including as amended by Public Law 91-550 (84 Stat. 1437)).
    (b) Land Description.--The parcel of land referred to in subsection 
(a) is the land that is generally depicted on the map entitled ``Lands 
transferred to the Pueblo of Taos--proposed'' and dated September 1994, 
comprises 764.33 acres, and is situated within sections 25, 26, 35, and 
36, Township 27 North, Range 14 East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, 
within the Wheeler Peak Wilderness, Carson National Forest, Taos 
County, New Mexico.
    (c) Conforming Boundary Adjustments.--The boundaries of the Carson 
National Forest and the Wheeler Peak Wilderness are hereby adjusted to 
reflect the transfer made by subsection (a).
    (d) Resolution of Outstanding Claims.--The Congress finds and 
declares that, as a result of the enactment of this Act, the Taos 
Pueblo has no unresolved equitable or legal claims against the United 
States on the lands to be held in trust and to become part of the 
Pueblo de Taos Reservation under this title.

                          TITLE XVII--SKI FEES

SEC. 1701. SKI AREA PERMIT RENTAL CHARGE.

    (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall charge a rental charge for 
all ski area permits issued pursuant to section 3 of the National 
Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 497b), the Act of March 
4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1101, chapter 144; 16 U.S.C. 497), or the 9th through 
20th paragraphs under the heading ``SURVEYING THE PUBLIC LANDS'' under 
the heading ``UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'' in the Act of June 
4, 1897 (30 Stat. 34, chapter 2), on National Forest System lands. 
Permit rental charges for permits issued pursuant to the National 
Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 shall be calculated as set forth in 
subsection (b). Permit rental charges for existing ski area permits 
issued pursuant to the Act of March 4, 1915, and the Act of June 4, 
1897, shall be calculated in accordance with those existing permits: 
Provided, That a permittee may, at the permittee's option, use the 
calculation method set forth in subsection (b).
    (b)(1) The ski area permit rental charge (SAPRC) shall be 
calculated by adding the permittee's gross revenues from lift ticket/
year-round ski area use pass sales plus revenue from ski school 
operations (LT+SS) and multiplying such total by the slope transport 
feet percentage (STFP) on National Forest System land. That amount 
shall be increased by the gross year-round revenue from ancillary 
facilities (GRAF) physically located on national forest land, including 
all permittee or subpermittee lodging, food service, rental shops, 
parking and other ancillary operations, to determine the adjusted gross 
revenue (AGR) subject to the permit rental charge. The final rental 
charge shall be calculated by multiplying the AGR by the following 
percentages for each revenue bracket and adding the total for each 
revenue bracket:
            (A) 1.5 percent of all adjusted gross revenue below 
        $3,000,000;
            (B) 2.5 percent for adjusted gross revenue between 
        $3,000,000 and $15,000,000;
            (C) 2.75 percent for adjusted gross revenue between 
        $15,000,000 and $50,000,000; and
            (D) 4.0 percent for the amount of adjusted gross revenue 
        that exceeds $50,000,000.
    Utilizing the abbreviations indicated in this subsection the ski 
area permit fee (SAPF) formula can be simply illustrated as:

      SAPF = ((LT + SS)  x  STFP) + GRAF = AGR; AGR  x  % BRACKETS

    (2) In cases where ski areas are only partially located on national 
forest lands, the slope transport feet percentage on national forest 
land referred to in subsection (b) shall be calculated as generally 
described in the Forest Service Manual in effect as of January 1, 1992. 
Revenues from Nordic ski operations shall be included or excluded from 
the rental charge calculation according to the percentage of trails 
physically located on national forest land.
    (3) In order to ensure that the rental charge remains fair and 
equitable to both the United States and the ski area permittees, the 
adjusted gross revenue figures for each revenue bracket in paragraph 
(1) shall be adjusted annually by the percent increase or decrease in 
the national Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year. No 
later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act and every 10 
years thereafter the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives a report 
analyzing whether the ski area permit rental charge legislated by this 
Act is returning a fair market value rental to the United States 
together with any recommendations the Secretary may have for 
modifications of the system.
    (c) The rental charge set forth in subsection (b) shall be due on 
June 1 of each year and shall be paid or pre-paid by the permittee on a 
monthly, quarterly, annual or other schedule as determined appropriate 
by the Secretary in consultation with the permittee. Unless mutually 
agreed otherwise by the Secretary and the permittee, the payment or 
prepayment schedule shall conform to the permittee's schedule in effect 
prior to enactment of this Act. To reduce costs to the permittee and 
the Forest Service, the Secretary shall each year provide the permittee 
with a standardized form and worksheets (including annual rental charge 
calculation brackets and rates) to be used for rental charge 
calculation and submitted with the rental charge payment. Information 
provided on such forms shall be compiled by the Secretary annually and 
kept in the Office of the Chief, United States Forest Service.
    (d) The ski area permit rental charge set forth in this section 
shall become effective on June 1, 1996 and cover receipts retroactive 
to June 1, 1995: Provided however, That if a permittee has paid rental 
charges for the period June 1, 1995, to June 1, 1996, under the 
graduated rate rental charge system formula in effect prior to the date 
of enactment of this Act, such rental charges shall be credited toward 
the new rental charge due on June 1, 1996. In order to ensure 
increasing rental charge receipt levels to the United States during 
transition from the graduated rate rental charge system formula to the 
formula of this Act, the rental charge paid by any individual permittee 
shall be--
            (1) for the 1995-1996 permit year, either the rental charge 
        paid for the preceding 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge 
        calculated pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher;
            (2) for the 1996-1997 permit year, either the rental charge 
        paid for the 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge 
        calculated pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher;
            (3) for the 1997-1998 permit year, either the rental charge 
        for the 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge calculated 
        pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher.
If an individual permittee's adjusted gross revenue for the 1995-1996, 
1996-1997, or 1997-1998 permit years falls more than 10 percent below 
the 1994-1995 base year, the rental charge paid shall be the rental 
charge calculated pursuant to this Act.
    (e) Under no circumstances shall revenue, or subpermittee revenue 
(other than lift ticket, area use pass, or ski school sales) obtained 
from operations physically located on non-national forest land be 
included in the ski area permit rental charge calculation.
    (f) To reduce administrative costs of ski area permittees and the 
Forest Service the terms ``revenue'' and ``sales'', as used in this 
section, shall mean actual income from sales and shall not include 
sales of operating equipment, refunds, rent paid to the permittee by 
sublessees, sponsor contributions to special events or any amounts 
attributable to employee gratuities or employee lift tickets, 
discounts, or other goods or services (except for bartered goods and 
complimentary lift tickets) for which the permittee does not receive 
money.
    (g) In cases where an area of national forest land is under a ski 
area permit but the permittee does not have revenue or sales qualifying 
for rental charge payment pursuant to subsection (a), the permittee 
shall pay an annual minimum rental charge of $2 for each national 
forest acre under permit or a percentage of appraised land value, as 
determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    (h) Where the new rental charge provided for in subsection (b)(1) 
results in an increase in permit rental charge greater than one half of 
one percent of the permittee's adjusted gross revenue as determined 
under subsection (b)(1), the new rental charge shall be phased in over 
a five year period in a manner providing for increases of approximately 
equal increments.
    (i) To reduce Federal costs in administering the provisions of this 
Act, the reissuance of a ski area permit to provide activities similar 
in nature and amount to the activities provided under the previous 
permit shall not constitute a major Federal action for the purposes of 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq.).

SEC. 1702. WITHDRAWALS.

    Subject to valid existing rights, all lands located within the 
boundaries of ski area permits issued prior to, on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act pursuant to authority of the Act of March 4, 1915 
(38 Stat. 1101, chapter 144; 16 U.S.C. 497), and the Act of June 4, 
1897, or the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 
497b) are hereby and henceforth automatically withdrawn from all forms 
of appropriation under the mining laws and from disposition under all 
laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing and all amendments 
thereto. Such withdrawal shall continue for the full term of the permit 
and any modification, reissuance, or renewal thereof. Unless the 
Secretary requests otherwise of the Secretary of the Interior, such 
withdrawal shall be canceled automatically upon expiration or other 
termination of the permit and the land automatically restored to all 
appropriation not otherwise restricted under the public land laws.

      TITLE XVIII--THE SELMA TO MONTGOMERY NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL

SEC. 1801. SELMA TO MONTGOMERY NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.

    Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
            ``(20) The Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail, 
        consisting of 54 miles of city streets and United States 
        Highway 80 from Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church in Selma to the 
        State Capitol Building in Montgomery, Alabama, traveled by 
        voting rights advocates during March 1965 to dramatize the need 
        for voting rights legislation, as generally described in the 
        report of the Secretary of the Interior prepared pursuant to 
        subsection (b) of this section entitled ``Selma to Montgomery'' 
        and dated April 1993. Maps depicting the route shall be on file 
        and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
        National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The trail 
        shall be administered in accordance with this Act, including 
        section 7(h). The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
        National Park Service, which shall be the lead Federal agency, 
        shall cooperate with other Federal, State and local authorities 
        to preserve historic sites along the route, including (but not 
        limited to) the Edmund Pettus Bridge and the Brown Chapel 
        A.M.E. Church.''.

     TITLE XIX--FORT CARSON--PINON CANYON MILITARY LANDS WITHDRAWAL

SEC. 1901. WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF LANDS AT FORT CARSON MILITARY 
              RESERVATION.

    (a) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights and except as 
otherwise provided in this title, the lands at the Fort Carson Military 
Reservation that are described in subsection (c) are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of appropriations under the public land laws, including 
the mining laws, the mineral and geothermal leasing laws, and the 
mineral materials disposal laws.
    (b) Reservation.--The lands withdrawn under subsection (a) are 
reserved for use by the Secretary of the Army--
            (1) for military maneuvering, training, and weapons firing; 
        and
            (2) for other defense related purposes consistent with the 
        uses specified in paragraph (1).
    (c) Land Description.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) 
comprise approximately 3,133.02 acres of public land and approximately 
11,415.16 acres of federally-owned minerals in El Paso, Pueblo, and 
Fremont Counties, Colorado, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Fort Carson Proposed Withdrawal--Fort Carson Base'', dated March 2, 
1992, and filed in accordance with section 1903.

SEC. 1902. WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF LANDS AT PINON CANYON MANEUVER 
              SITE.

    (a) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights and except as 
otherwise provided in this title, the lands at the Pinon Canyon 
Maneuver Site that are described in subsection (c) are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including 
the mining laws, the mineral and geothermal leasing laws, and the 
mineral materials disposal laws.
    (b) Reservation.--The lands withdrawn under subsection (a) are 
reserved for use by the Secretary of the Army--
            (1) for military maneuvering and training; and
            (2) for other defense related purposes consistent with the 
        uses specified in paragraph (1).
    (c) Land Description.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) 
comprise approximately 2,517.12 acres of public lands and approximately 
130,139 acres of federally-owned minerals in Los Animas County, 
Colorado, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Fort Carson 
Proposed Withdrawal--Fort Carson Maneuver Area--Pinon Canyon Site'', 
dated March 2, 1992, and filed in accordance with section 1903.

SEC. 1903. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Preparation.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of the Interior shall publish in 
the Federal Register a notice containing the legal description of the 
lands withdrawn and reserved by this Act.
    (b) Legal Effect.--Such maps and legal descriptions shall have the 
same force and effect as if they were included in this title, except 
that the Secretary of the Interior may correct clerical and 
typographical errors in such maps and legal descriptions.
    (c) Location of Maps.--Copies of such maps and legal descriptions 
shall be available for public inspection in the offices of the Colorado 
State Director and the Canon City District Manager of the Bureau of 
Land Management, and the Commander, Fort Carson, Colorado.
    (d) Costs.--The Secretary of the Army shall reimburse the Secretary 
of the Interior for the costs of implementing this section.

SEC. 1904. MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN LANDS.

    (a) Management Guidelines.--(1) Except as provided in section 1905, 
during the period of withdrawal the Secretary of the Army shall manage 
for military purposes the lands covered by this title and may authorize 
use of such lands covered by the other military departments and 
agencies of the Department of Defense, and the National Guard, as 
appropriate.
    (2) When military operations, public safety, or national security, 
as determined by the Secretary of the Army, require the closure of 
roads or trails on the lands withdrawn by this title commonly in public 
use, the Secretary of the Army is authorized to take such action, 
except that such closures shall be limited to the minimum areas and 
periods required for the purposes specified in this subsection. 
Appropriate warning notices shall be kept posted during closures.
    (3) The Secretary of the Army shall take necessary precautions to 
prevent and suppress brush and range fires occurring within and outside 
the lands as a result of military activities and may seek assistance 
from the Bureau of Land Management in suppressing such fires. The 
memorandum of understanding required by this subsection (c) shall 
provide for Bureau of Land Management assistance in the suppression of 
such fires, and for the transfer of funds from the Department of the 
Army to the Bureau of Land Management as compensation for such 
assistance.
    (b) Management Plan.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of the Interior, shall develop a plan for the 
management of acquired lands and lands withdrawn under sections 1901 
and 1902 of this title for the period of the withdrawal. Such plan 
shall--
            (1) be consistent with applicable law;
            (2) include such provisions as may be necessary for proper 
        resource management and protection of the natural, cultural, 
        and other resources and values of such lands; and
            (3) identify those withdrawn and acquired lands, if any, 
        which are to be open to mining, or mineral or geothermal 
        leasing, including mineral materials disposal.
    (c) Implementation of Management Plan.--(1) The Secretary of the 
Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into a memorandum of 
understanding to implement the management plan described in subsection 
(b).
    (2) The duration of any such memorandum of understanding shall be 
the same as the period of withdrawal under section 1907.
    (3) The memorandum of understanding may be amended by agreement of 
both Secretaries.
    (d) Use of Certain Resources.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
the Secretary of the Army is authorized to utilize sand, gravel, or 
similar mineral or mineral material resources from lands withdrawn by 
this title, when the use of such resources is required for construction 
needs of the Fort Carson Military Reservation or Pinon Canyon Maneuver 
Site.

SEC. 1905. MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN AND ACQUIRED MINERAL RESOURCES.

    Except as provided in section 1904(d) of this title, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall manage all withdrawn and acquired mineral 
resources within the boundaries of the Fort Carson Military Reservation 
and Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site in accordance with section 12 of the 
Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-606; 100 Stat. 
3466), as applicable.

SEC. 1906. HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING.

    All hunting, fishing and trapping on the lands withdrawn and 
reserved by this title shall be conducted in accordance with section 
2671 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 1907. TERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION AND EFFECT OF 
              CONTAMINATION.

    (a) Termination Date.--The withdrawal and reservation established 
by this title shall terminate 15 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Determination of Continuing Military Need.--(1) At least three 
years prior to the termination under subsection (a) of the withdrawal 
and reservation established by this title, the Secretary of the Army 
shall advise the Secretary of the Interior as to whether or not the 
Department of the Army will have a continuing military need for any of 
the lands after the termination date.
    (2) If the Secretary of the Army concludes under paragraph (1) that 
there will be a continuing military need for any of the lands after the 
termination date established by subsection (a), the Secretary of the 
Army, in accordance with applicable law, shall evaluate the 
environmental effects of renewal of such withdrawal and reservation, 
shall hold at least one public hearing in Colorado concerning such 
evaluation, and shall thereafter file an application for extension of 
the withdrawal and reservation of such lands in accordance with the 
regulations and procedures of the Department of the Interior applicable 
to the extension of withdrawals for military uses. The Secretary of the 
Interior shall notify the Congress concerning such filing.
    (3) If the Secretary of the Army concludes under paragraph (1) that 
prior to the termination date established by subsection (a), there will 
be no military need for all or any of the lands withdrawn and reserved 
by this Act, or if, during the period of withdrawal, the Secretary of 
the Army shall file a notice of intention to relinquish with the 
Secretary of the Interior.
    (c) Determination of Contamination.--Prior to the filing of a 
notice of intention to relinquish pursuant to subsection (b)(3), the 
Secretary of the Army shall prepare a written determination as to 
whether and to what extent the lands are contaminated with explosive, 
toxic, or other hazardous materials. A copy of the determination made 
by the Secretary of the Army shall be supplied with the notice of 
intention to relinquish. Copies of both the notice of intention to 
relinquish and the determination concerning the contaminated state of 
the lands shall be published in the Federal Register by the Secretary 
of the Interior.
    (d) Effect of Contamination.--(1) If any land which is the subject 
of a notice of intention to relinquish under subsection (b)(3) is 
contaminated, and the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Army, determines that decontamination is 
practicable and economically feasible, taking into consideration the 
potential future use and value of the land, and that upon 
decontamination, the land could be opened to the operation of some or 
all of the public land laws, including the mining laws, the Secretary 
of the Army shall decontaminate the land to the extent that funds are 
appropriated for such purpose.
    (2) If the Secretaries of the Army and the Interior conclude either 
that the contamination of any or all of the lands proposed for 
relinquishment is not practicable or economically feasible, or that the 
lands cannot be decontaminated sufficiently to allow them to be opened 
to the operation of the public land laws, or if Congress declined to 
appropriate funds for decontamination of the lands, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall not be required to accept the lands proposed for 
relinquishment.
    (3) If, because of their contaminated state, the Secretary of the 
Interior declines under paragraph (2) to accept jurisdiction of the 
lands proposed for relinquishment, or if at the expiration of the 
withdrawal made by this title the Secretary of the Interior determines 
that some of the lands withdrawn by this title are contaminated to an 
extent which prevents opening such contaminated lands to operation of 
the public land laws--
            (A) the Secretary of the Army shall take appropriate steps 
        to warn the public of the contaminated state of such lands and 
        any risks associated with entry onto such lands;
            (B) after the expiration of the withdrawal, the Secretary 
        of the Army shall undertake no activities on such lands except 
        in connection with decontamination of such lands; and
            (C) the Secretary of the Army shall report to the Secretary 
        of the Interior and to the Congress concerning the status of 
        such lands and all actions taken in furtherance of the 
        subsection.
    (4) If the lands are subsequently decontaminated, upon 
certification by the Secretary of the Army that the lands are safe for 
all nonmilitary uses, the Secretary of the Interior shall reconsider 
accepting jurisdiction over the lands.
    (5) Nothing in this title shall affect, or be construed to affect, 
the Secretary's obligations, if any, to decontaminate such lands 
pursuant to applicable law, including but not limited to the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (42 
U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).
    (e) Program of Decontamination.--Throughout the duration of the 
withdrawal and reservation made by the title, the Secretary of the 
Army, to the extent funds are made available, shall maintain a program 
of decontamination of the lands withdrawn by this title at least at the 
level of effort carried out during fiscal year 1992.
    (f) Acceptance of Lands Proposed for Relinquishment.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the 
Interior, upon deciding that it is in the public interest to accept 
jurisdiction over those lands proposed for relinquishment, is 
authorized to revoke the withdrawal and reservation established by this 
title as it applies to the lands proposed for relinquishment. Should 
the decision be made to revoke the withdrawal and reservation, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall publish in the Federal Register an 
appropriate order which shall--
            (1) terminate the withdrawal and reservation;
            (2) constitute official acceptance of full jurisdiction 
        over the lands by the Secretary of the Interior; and
            (3) state the date upon which the lands will be opened to 
        the operation of the public land laws, including the mining 
        laws if appropriate.

SEC. 1908. DELEGATION.

    The function of the Secretary of the Army under this Act may be 
delegated. The functions of the Secretary of the Interior under this 
title may be delegated, except that the order referred to in section 
1907(f) may be approved and signed only by the Secretary of the 
Interior, the Deputy Secretary of the Interior, or an Assistant 
Secretary of the Department of the Interior.

SEC. 1909. HOLD HARMLESS PROVISION.

    (a) In General.--The United States and all departments or agencies 
thereof shall be held harmless and shall not be liable for any injuries 
or damages to persons or property suffered in the course of any mining, 
mineral activity, or geothermal leasing activity conducted on lands 
comprising the Fort Carson Military Reservation or Pinon Canyon 
Maneuver Site, including liabilities to non-Federal entities under 
section 107 or 113 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response 
Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607 and 9613), or section 
7003 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6973).
    (b) Indemnification.--Any party conducting any mining, mineral or 
geothermal leasing activity on such lands shall indemnify the United 
States and its departments or agencies thereof against any costs, fees, 
damages, or other liabilities, including costs of litigation, arising 
from or related to such mining activities, including costs of minerals 
disposal, whether arising under the Comprehensive Environmental 
Resource Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, or otherwise.

SEC. 1910. AMENDMENTS TO MILITARY LANDS WITHDRAWAL ACT OF 1986.

    (a) Use of Certain Resources.--Section 3(f) of the Military Lands 
Withdrawal Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-606; 100 Stat. 3461) is amended 
by adding at the end a new paragraph (2) as follows:
            ``(2) Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary of 
        the military department concerned may utilize sand, gravel, or 
        similar mineral or material resources from lands withdrawn for 
        the purposes of this Act when the use of such resources is 
        required for construction needs on the respective lands 
        withdrawn by this Act.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 9(b) of the Military Lands 
Withdrawal Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-606; 100 Stat. 3466) is amended 
by striking ``7(f)'' and inserting in lieu thereof, ``8(f)''.

SEC. 1911. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title.

                 TITLE XX--SNOWBASIN LAND EXCHANGE ACT

SEC. 2001. FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) in June 1995, Salt Lake City, Utah, was selected to 
        host the 2002 Winter Olympic Games and the Snowbasin Ski 
        Resort, which is owned by the Sun Valley Company, was 
        identified as the site of six Olympic events: the men's and 
        women's downhills, men's and women's Super-Gs, and men's and 
        women's combined downhills;
            (2) in order to adequately accommodate these events, which 
        are traditionally among the most popular and heavily attended 
        at the Winter Olympic Games, major new skiing, visitor, and 
        support facilities will have to be constructed at the Snowbasin 
        Ski Resort on land currently administered by the United States 
        Forest Service;
            (3) while certain of these new facilities can be 
        accommodated on National Forest land under traditional Forest 
        Service permitting authorities, the base area facilities 
        necessary to host visitors to the ski area and the Winter 
        Olympics are of such a nature that they should logically be 
        located on private land;
            (4) land exchanges have been routinely utilized by the 
        Forest Service to transfer base area lands to many other ski 
        areas, and the Forest Service and the Sun Valley Company have 
        concluded that a land exchange to transfer base area lands at 
        the Snowbasin Ski Resort to the Sun Valley Company is both 
        logical and advisable;
            (5) an environmental impact statement and numerous resource 
        studies have been completed by the Forest Service and the Sun 
        Valley Company for the lands proposed to be transferred to the 
        Sun Valley Company by this title;
            (6) the Sun Valley Company has assembled lands with 
        outstanding environmental, recreational, and other values to 
        convey to the Forest Service in return for the lands it will 
        receive in the exchange, and the Forest Service has identified 
        such lands as desirable for acquisition by the United States; 
        and
            (7) completion of a land exchange and approval of a 
        development plan for Olympic related facilities at the 
        Snowbasin Ski Resort is essential to ensure that all necessary 
        facilities can be constructed, tested for safety and other 
        purposes, and become fully operational in advance of the 2002 
        Winter Olympics and earlier pre-Olympic events.
    (b) Determination.--The Congress has reviewed the previous analyses 
and studies of the lands to be exchanged and developed pursuant to this 
title, and has made its own review of these lands and issues involved, 
and on the basis of those reviews hereby finds and determines that a 
legislated land exchange and development plan approval with respect to 
certain National Forest System Lands is necessary to meet Olympic goals 
and timetables.

SEC. 2002. PURPOSE AND INTENT.

    The purpose of this title is to authorize and direct the Secretary 
to exchange 1,320 acres of federally-owned land within the Cache 
National Forest in the State of Utah for lands of approximately equal 
value owned by the Sun Valley Company. It is the intent of Congress 
that this exchange be completed without delay within the period 
specified by section 2004.

SEC. 2003. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title--
            (1) the term ``Sun Valley Company'' means the Sun Valley 
        Company, a division of Sinclair Oil Corporation, a Wyoming 
        Corporation, or its successors or assigns; and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

SEC. 2004. EXCHANGE.

    (a) Federal Selected Lands.--(1) Not later than 45 days after the 
final determination of value of the Federal selected lands, the 
Secretary shall, subject to this title, transfer all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the lands referred to in 
paragraph (2) to the Sun Valley Company.
    (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are certain lands within 
the Cache National Forest in the State of Utah comprising 1,320 acres, 
more or less, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Snowbasin 
Land Exchange--Proposed'' and dated October 1995.
    (b) Non-Federal Offered Lands.--Upon transfer of the Federal 
selected lands under subsection (a), and in exchange for those lands, 
the Sun Valley Company shall simultaneously convey to the Secretary all 
right, title and interest of the Sun Valley Company in and to so much 
of the following offered lands which have been previously identified by 
the United States Forest Service as desirable by the United States, or 
which are identified pursuant to paragraph (5) prior to the transfer of 
lands under subsection (a), as are of approximate equal value to the 
Federal selected lands:
            (1) Certain lands located within the exterior boundaries of 
        the Cache National Forest in Weber County, Utah, which comprise 
        approximately 640 acres and are generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Lightning Ridge Offered Lands'', dated October 1995.
            (2) Certain lands located within the Cache National Forest 
        in Weber County, Utah, which comprise approximately 635 acres 
        and are generally depicted on a map entitled ``Wheeler Creek 
        Watershed Offered Lands--Section 2'' dated October 1995.
            (3) Certain lands located within the exterior boundaries of 
        the Cache National Forest in Weber County, Utah, and lying 
        immediately adjacent to the outskirts of the City of Ogden, 
        Utah, which comprise approximately 800 acres and are generally 
        depicted on a map entitled ``Taylor Canyon Offered Lands'', 
        dated October 1995.
            (4) Certain lands located within the exterior boundaries of 
        the Cache National Forest in Weber County, Utah, which comprise 
        approximately 2,040 acres and are generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``North Fork Ogden River--Devil's Gate Valley'', dated 
        October 1995.
            (5) Such additional offered lands in the State of Utah as 
        may be necessary to make the values of the lands exchanged 
        pursuant to this title approximately equal, and which are 
        acceptable to the Secretary.
    (c) Substitution of Offered Lands.--If one or more of the precise 
offered land parcels identified in paragraphs (1) through (4) of 
subsection (b) is unable to be conveyed to the United States due to 
appraisal or other reasons, or if the Secretary and the Sun Valley 
Company mutually agree and the Secretary determines that an alternative 
offered land package would better serve long term public needs and 
objectives, the Sun Valley Company may simultaneously convey to the 
United States alternative offered lands in the State of Utah acceptable 
to the Secretary in lieu of any or all of the lands identified in 
paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b).
    (d) Valuation and Appraisals.--(1) Values of the lands to be 
exchanged pursuant to this title shall be equal as determined by the 
Secretary utilizing nationally recognized appraisal standards and in 
accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
Act of 1976. The appraisal reports shall be written to Federal 
standards as defined in the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
Land Acquisitions. If, due to size, location, or use of lands exchanged 
under this title, the values are not exactly equal, they shall be 
equalized by the payment of cash equalization money to the Secretary or 
the Sun Valley Company as appropriate in accordance with section 206(b) 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716(b)). In order to expedite the consummation of the exchange 
directed by this title, the Sun Valley Company shall arrange and pay 
for appraisals of the offered and selected lands by a qualified 
appraiser with experience in appraising similar properties and who is 
mutually acceptable to the Sun Valley Company and the Secretary. The 
appraisal of the Federal selected lands shall be completed and 
submitted to the Secretary for technical review and approval no later 
than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and the 
Secretary shall make a determination of value not later than 30 days 
after receipt of the appraisal. In the event the Secretary and the Sun 
Valley Company are unable to agree to the appraised value of a certain 
tract or tracts of land, the appraisal, appraisals, or appraisal issues 
in dispute and a final determination of value shall be resolved through 
a process of bargaining or submission to arbitration in accordance with 
section 206(d) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1716(d)).
    (2) In order to expedite the appraisal of the Federal selected 
lands, such appraisal shall--
            (A) value the land in its unimproved state, as a single 
        entity for its highest and best use as if in private ownership 
        and as of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (B) consider the Federal lands as an independent property 
        as though in the private marketplace and suitable for 
        development to its highest and best use;
            (C) consider in the appraisal any encumbrance on the title 
        anticipated to be in the conveyance to Sun Valley Company and 
        reflect its effect on the fair market value of the property; 
        and
            (D) not reflect any enhancement in value to the Federal 
        selected lands based on the existence of private lands owned by 
        the Sun Valley Company in the vicinity of the Snowbasin Ski 
        Resort, and shall assume that private lands owned by the Sun 
        Valley Company are not available for use in conjunction with 
        the Federal selected lands.

SEC. 2005. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE EXCHANGE.

    (a) In General.--The exchange authorized by this title shall be 
subject to the following terms and conditions:
            (1) Reserved rights-of-way.--In any deed issued pursuant to 
        section 5(a), the Secretary shall reserve in the United States 
        a right of reasonable access across the conveyed property for 
        public access and for administrative purposes of the United 
        States necessary to manage adjacent federally-owned lands. The 
        terms of such reservation shall be prescribed by the Secretary 
        within 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Right of Rescission.--This title shall not be binding 
        on either the United States or the Sun Valley Company if, 
        within 30 days after the final determination of value of the 
        Federal selected lands, the Sun Valley Company submits to the 
        Secretary a duly authorized and executed resolution of the 
        Company stating its intention not to enter into the exchange 
        authorized by this title.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, effective on the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Federal selected lands described in 
section 5(a)(2) and all National Forest System lands currently under 
special use permit to the Sun Valley Company at the Snowbasin Ski 
Resort are hereby withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the 
public land laws (including the mining laws) and from disposition under 
all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing.
    (c) Deed.--The conveyance of the offered lands to the United States 
under this title shall be by general warranty or other deed acceptable 
to the Secretary and in conformity with applicable title standards of 
the Attorney General of the United States.
    (d) Status of Lands.--Upon acceptance of title by the Secretary, 
the land conveyed to the United States pursuant to this title shall 
become part of the Wasatch or Cache National Forests as appropriate, 
and the boundaries of such National Forests shall be adjusted to 
encompass such lands. Once conveyed, such lands shall be managed in 
accordance with the Act of March 1, 1911, as amended (commonly known as 
the ``Weeks Act''), and in accordance with the other laws, rules and 
regulations applicable to National Forest System lands. This subsection 
does not limit the Secretary's authority to adjust the boundaries 
pursuant to section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (``Weeks Act''). For 
the purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act 
of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-9), the boundaries of the Wasatch and Cache 
National Forests, as adjusted by this title, shall be considered to be 
boundaries of the forests as of January 1, 1965.

SEC. 2006. PHASE I FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION.

    (a) Phase I Facility Finding and Review.--(1) The Congress has 
reviewed the Snowbasin Ski Area Master Development Plan dated October 
1995 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``Master Plan''). 
On the basis of such review, and review of previously completed 
environmental and other resource studies for the Snowbasin Ski Area, 
Congress hereby finds that the ``Phase I'' facilities referred to in 
the Master Plan to be located on National Forest System land after 
consummation of the land exchange directed by this title are limited in 
size and scope, are reasonable and necessary to accommodate the 2002 
Olympics, and in some cases are required to provide for the safety of 
skiing competitors and spectators.
    (2) Within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary and the Sun Valley Company shall review the Master Plan 
insofar as such plan pertains to Phase I facilities which are to be 
constructed and operated wholly or partially on National Forest System 
lands retained by the Secretary after consummation of the land exchange 
directed by this title. The Secretary may modify such Phase I 
facilities upon mutual agreement with the Sun Valley Company or by 
imposing conditions pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
    (3) Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit the reviewed Master Plan on the Phase I 
facilities, including any modifications made thereto pursuant to 
paragraph (2), to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives for a 30-day review period. At the end 
of the 30-day period, unless otherwise directed by Act of Congress, the 
Secretary may issue all necessary authorizations for construction and 
operation of such facilities or modifications thereof in accordance 
with the procedures and provisions of subsection (b) of this section.
    (b) Phase I Facility Approval, Conditions, and Timetable.--Within 
120 days of receipt of an application by the Sun Valley Company to 
authorize construction and operation of any particular Phase I 
facility, facilities, or group of facilities, the Secretary, in 
consultation with the Sun Valley Company, shall authorize construction 
and operation of such facility, facilities, or group of facilities, 
subject to the general policies of the Forest Service pertaining to the 
construction and operation of ski area facilities on National Forest 
System lands and subject to reasonable conditions to protect National 
Forest System resources. In providing authorization to construct and 
operate a facility, facilities, or group of facilities, the Secretary 
may not impose any condition that would significantly change the 
location, size, or scope of the applied for Phase I facility unless--
            (1) the modification is mutually agreed to by the Secretary 
        and the Sun Valley Company; or
            (2) the modification is necessary to protect health and 
        safety.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the Secretary's 
responsibility to monitor and assure compliance with the conditions set 
forth in the construction and operation authorization.
    (c) Congressional Directions.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, Congress finds that consummation of the land exchange directed 
by this title and all determinations, authorizations, and actions taken 
by the Secretary pursuant to this title pertaining to Phase I 
facilities on National Forest System lands, or any modifications 
thereof, to be nondiscretionary actions authorized and directed by 
Congress and hence to comply with all procedural and other requirements 
of the laws of the United States. Such determinations, authorizations, 
and actions shall not be subject to administrative or judicial review.

SEC. 2007. NO PRECEDENT.

    Nothing in section 2004(d)(2) of this title relating to conditions 
or limitations on the appraisal of the Federal lands, or any provision 
of section 2006 relating to the approval by the Congress or the Forest 
Service of facilities on National Forest System lands, shall be 
construed as a precedent for subsequent legislation.

             TITLE XXI--COLONIAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

SEC. 2101. COLONIAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Transfer and Rights-of-Way.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereinafter in this title referred to as the ``Secretary'') is 
authorized to transfer, without reimbursement, to York County, 
Virginia, that portion of the existing sewage disposal system, 
including related improvements and structures, owned by the United 
States and located within the Colonial National Historical Park, 
together with such rights-of-way as are determined by the Secretary to 
be necessary to maintain and operate such system.
    (b) Repair and Rehabilitation of System.--The Secretary is 
authorized to enter into a cooperative agreement with York County, 
Virginia, under which the Secretary will pay a portion, not to exceed 
$110,000, of the costs of repair and rehabilitation of the sewage 
disposal system referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Fees and Charges.--In consideration for the rights-of-way 
granted under subsection (a), and in recognition of the National Park 
Service's contribution authorized under subsection (b), the cooperative 
agreement under subsection (b) shall provide for a reduction in, or the 
elimination of, the amounts charged to the National Park Service for 
its sewage disposal. The cooperative agreement shall also provide for 
minimizing the impact of the sewage disposal system on the park and its 
resources. Such system may not be enlarged or substantially altered 
without National Park Service concurrence.

SEC. 2102. INCLUSION OF LAND IN COLONIAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act of June 28, 1938 (52 
Stat. 1208; 16 U.S.C. 81b et seq.), limiting the average width of the 
Colonial Parkway, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to 
include within the boundaries of Colonial National Historical Park and 
acquire by donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated 
funds--
            (1) the lands or interests in lands described as lots 30 to 
        48, inclusive;
            (2) the portion of lot 49 that is 200 feet in width from 
        the existing boundary of Colonial National Historical Park;
            (3) a 3.2-acre archaeological site, as shown on the plats 
        titled ``Page Landing At Jamestown being a subdivision of 
        property of Neck O Land Limited Partnership'' dated June 21, 
        1989, sheets 2 and 3 of 3 sheets and bearing National Park 
        Service Drawing Number 333.80031; and
            (4) all or a portion of the adjoining lot number 11 of the 
        Neck O Land Hundred Subdivision, with or without improvements.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

          TITLE XXII--WOMEN'S RIGHTS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK

SEC. 2201. INCLUSION OF OTHER PROPERTIES.

    Section 1601(c) of Public Law 96-607 (16 U.S.C. 410ll) is amended 
to read as follows: ``To carry out the purposes of this section there 
is hereby established the Women's Rights National Historical Park 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``park''). The park 
shall consist of the following designated sites in Seneca Falls and 
Waterloo, New York:
            ``(1) Stanton House, 32 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(2) dwelling, 30 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(3) dwelling, 34 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(4) lot, 26-28 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(5) former Wesleyan Chapel, 126 Fall Street, Seneca 
        Falls;
            ``(6) theater, 128 Fall Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(7) McClintock House, 16 East Williams Street, Waterloo;
            ``(8) Hunt House, 401 East Williams Street, Waterloo;
            ``(9) not to exceed 1 acre, plus improvements, as 
        determined by the Secretary, in Seneca Falls for development of 
        a maintenance facility;
            ``(10) dwelling, 1 Seneca Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(11) dwelling, 10 Seneca Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(12) parcels adjacent to Wesleyan Chapel Block, including 
        Clinton Street, Fall Street, and Mynderse Street, Seneca Falls; 
        and
            ``(13) dwelling, 12 East Williams Street, Waterloo.''.

SEC. 2202. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS.

    Section 1601 of Public Law 96-607 (16 U.S.C. 410ll) is amended by 
redesignating subsection (i) as ``(i)(1)'' and inserting at the end 
thereof the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In addition to those sums appropriated prior to the date of 
enactment of this paragraph for land acquisition and development, there 
is hereby authorized to be appropriated an additional $2,000,000.''.

            TITLE XXIII--FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT FAMILY LANDS

SEC. 2301. ACQUISITION OF LANDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to acquire, by purchase 
with donated or appropriated funds, donation, or otherwise, lands and 
interests therein in the following properties located at Hyde Park, New 
York identified as lands critical for protection as depicted on the map 
entitled ``Roosevelt Family Estate'' and dated September 1994--
            (1) the ``Open Park Hodhome Tract'', consisting of 
        approximately 40 acres, which shall be the highest priority for 
        acquisition;
            (2) the ``Top Cottage Tract'', consisting of approximately 
        30 acres; and
            (3) the ``Poughkeepsie Shopping Center, Inc. Tract'', 
        consisting of approximately 55 acres.
    (b) Administration.--Lands and interests therein acquired by the 
Secretary pursuant to this title shall be added to, and administered by 
the Secretary as part of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt National 
Historic Site or the Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site, as 
appropriate.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be appropriated not to exceed $3,000,000 to carry out this title.

         TITLE XXIV--GREAT FALLS HISTORIC DISTRICT, NEW JERSEY

SEC. 2401. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the Great Falls Historic District in the State of New 
        Jersey is an area of historical significance as an early site 
        of planned industrial development, and has remained largely 
        intact, including architecturally significant structures;
            (2) the Great Falls Historic District is listed on the 
        National Register of Historic Places and has been designated a 
        National Historic Landmark;
            (3) the Great Falls Historic District is situated within a 
        one-half hour's drive from New York City and a 2 hour's drive 
        from Philadelphia, Hartford, New Haven, and Wilmington;
            (4) the District was developed by the Society of Useful 
        Manufactures, an organization whose leaders included a number 
        of historically renowned individuals, including Alexander 
        Hamilton; and
            (5) the Great Falls Historic District has been the subject 
        of a number of studies that have shown that the District 
        possesses a combination of historic significance and natural 
        beauty worthy of and uniquely situated for preservation and 
        redevelopment.

SEC. 2402. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to preserve and interpret, for the educational and 
        inspirational benefit of the public, the contribution to our 
        national heritage of certain historic and cultural lands and 
        edifices of the Great Falls Historic District, with emphasis on 
        harnessing this unique urban environment for its educational 
        and recreational value; and
            (2) to enhance economic and cultural redevelopment within 
        the District.

SEC. 2403. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Great Falls 
        Historic District established by section 2404.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 2404. GREAT FALLS HISTORIC DISTRICT.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Great Falls Historic 
District in the city of Paterson, in Passaic County, New Jersey.
    (b) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the District shall be the 
boundaries specified for the Great Falls Historic District listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places.

SEC. 2405. DEVELOPMENT PLAN.

    (a) Grants and Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may make 
grants and enter into cooperative agreements with the State of New 
Jersey, local governments, and private nonprofit entities under which 
the Secretary agrees to pay not more than 50 percent of the costs of--
            (1) preparation of a plan for the development of historic, 
        architectural, natural, cultural, and interpretive resources 
        within the District; and
            (2) implementation of projects approved by the Secretary 
        under the development plan.
    (b) Contents of Plan.--The development plan shall include--
            (1) an evaluation of--
                    (A) the physical condition of historic and 
                architectural resources; and
                    (B) the environmental and flood hazard conditions 
                within the District; and
            (2) recommendations for--
                    (A) rehabilitating, reconstructing, and adaptively 
                reusing the historic and architectural resources;
                    (B) preserving viewsheds, focal points, and 
                streetscapes;
                    (C) establishing gateways to the District;
                    (D) establishing and maintaining parks and public 
                spaces;
                    (E) developing public parking areas;
                    (F) improving pedestrian and vehicular circulation 
                within the District;
                    (G) improving security within the District, with an 
                emphasis on preserving historically significant 
                structures from arson; and
                    (H) establishing a visitors' center.

SEC. 2406. RESTORATION, PRESERVATION, AND INTERPRETATION OF PROPERTIES.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with the owners of properties within the 
District that the Secretary determines to be of historical or cultural 
significance, under which the Secretary may--
            (1) pay not more than 50 percent of the cost of restoring 
        and improving the properties;
            (2) provide technical assistance with respect to the 
        preservation and interpretation of the properties; and
            (3) mark and provide interpretation of the properties.
    (b) Provisions.--A cooperative agreement under subsection (a) shall 
provide that--
            (1) the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
        reasonable times to public portions of the property for 
        interpretive and other purposes;
            (2) no change or alteration may be made in the property 
        except with the agreement of the property owner, the Secretary, 
        and any Federal agency that may have regulatory jurisdiction 
        over the property; and
            (3) if at any time the property is converted, used, or 
        disposed of in a manner that is contrary to the purposes of 
        this Act, as determined by the Secretary, the property owner 
        shall be liable to the Secretary for the greater of--
                    (A) the amount of assistance provided by the 
                Secretary for the property; or
                    (B) the portion of the increased value of the 
                property that is attributable to that assistance, 
                determined as of the date of the conversion, use, or 
                disposal.
    (c) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--A property owner that desires to enter 
        into a cooperative agreement under subsection (a) shall submit 
        to the Secretary an application describing how the project 
        proposed to be funded will further the purposes of the 
        District.
            (2) Consideration.--In making such funds available under 
        this section, the Secretary shall give consideration to 
        projects that provide a greater leverage of Federal funds.

SEC. 2407. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this title--
            (1) $250,000 for grants and cooperative agreements for the 
        development plan under section 2405; and
            (2) $50,000 for the provision of technical assistance and 
        $3,000,000 for the provision of other assistance under 
        cooperative agreements under section 2406.

                    TITLE XXV--RIO PUERCO WATERSHED

SEC. 2501. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) over time, extensive ecological changes have occurred 
        in the Rio Puerco watershed, including--
                    (A) erosion of agricultural and range lands;
                    (B) impairment of waters due to heavy 
                sedimentations;
                    (C) reduced productivity of renewable resources;
                    (D) loss of biological diversity;
                    (E) loss of functioning riparian areas; and
                    (F) loss of available surface water;
            (2) damage to the watershed has seriously affected the 
        economic and cultural well-being of its inhabitants, 
        including--
                    (A) loss of communities that were based on the land 
                and were self-sustaining; and
                    (B) adverse effects on the traditions, customs, and 
                cultures of the affected communities;
            (3) a healthy and sustainable ecosystem is essential to the 
        long-term economic and cultural viability of the region;
            (4) the impairment of the Rio Puerco watershed has caused 
        damage to the ecological and economic well-being of the area 
        below the junction of the Rio Puerco with the Rio Grande, 
        including--
                    (A) disruption of ecological processes;
                    (B) water quality impairment;
                    (C) significant reduction in the water storage 
                capacity and life expectancy of the Elephant Butte Dam 
                and Reservoir system due to sedimentation;
                    (D) chronic problems of irrigation system channel 
                maintenance; and
                    (E) increased risk of flooding caused by sediment 
                accumulation;
            (5) the Rio Puerco is a major tributary of the Rio Grande, 
        and the coordinated implementation of ecosystem-based best 
        management practices for the Rio Puerco system could benefit 
        the larger Rio Grande system;
            (6) the Rio Puerco watershed has been stressed from the 
        loss of native vegetation, introduction of exotic species, and 
        alteration of riparian habitat which have disrupted the 
        original dynamics of the river and disrupted natural ecological 
        processes;
            (7) the Rio Puerco watershed is a mosaic of private, 
        Federal, tribal trust, and State land ownership with diverse, 
        sometimes differing management objectives;
            (8) development, implementation, and monitoring of an 
        effective watershed management program for the Rio Puerco 
        watershed is best achieved through cooperation among affected 
        Federal, State, local, and tribal entities;
            (9) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
        Director of the bureau of Land Management, in consultation with 
        Federal, State, local, and tribal entitles and in cooperation 
        with the Rio Puerco Watershed Committee, is best suited to 
        coordinate management efforts in the Rio Puerco Watershed; and
            (10) accelerating the pace of improvement in the Rio Puerco 
        Watershed on a coordinated, cooperative basis will benefit 
        persons living in the watershed as well as downstream users on 
        the Rio Grande.

SEC. 2502. MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the Bureau of Land Management shall--
            (1) in consultation with the Rio Puerco Management 
        Committee established by section 2503--
                    (A) establish a clearinghouse for research and 
                information on management within the area identified as 
                the Rio Puerco Drainage Basin, as depicted on the map 
                entitled ``the Rio Puerco Watershed'' dated June 1994, 
                including--
                            (i) current and historical natural resource 
                        conditions; and
                            (ii) data concerning the extent and causes 
                        of watershed impairment; and
                    (B) establish an inventory of best management 
                practices and related monitoring activities that have 
                been or may be implemented within the area identified 
                as the Rio Puerco Watershed Project, as depicted on the 
                map entitled ``the Rio Puerco Watershed'' dated June 
                1994; and
            (2) provide support to the Rio Puerco Management Committee 
        to identify objectives, monitor results of ongoing projects, 
        and develop alternative watershed management plans for the Rio 
        Puerco Drainage Basin, based on best management practices.
    (b) Rio Puerco Management Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Rio Puerco Management Committee, shall 
        prepare a report for the improvement of watershed conditions in 
        the Rio Puerco Drainage Basin described in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) identify reasonable and appropriate goals and 
                objectives for landowners and managers in the Rio 
                Puerco watershed;
                    (B) describe potential alternative actions to meet 
                the goals and objectives, including proven best 
                management practices and costs associated with 
                implementing the actions;
                    (C) recommend voluntary implementation of 
                appropriate best management practices on public and 
                private lands;
                    (D) provide for cooperative development of 
                management guidelines for maintaining and improving the 
                ecological, cultural, and economic conditions on public 
                and private lands;
                    (E) provide for the development of public 
                participation and community outreach programs that 
                would include proposals for--
                            (i) cooperative efforts with private 
                        landowners to encourage implementation of best 
                        management practices within the watershed; and
                            (ii) Involvement of private citizens in 
                        restoring the watershed;
                    (F) provide for the development of proposals for 
                voluntary cooperative programs among the members of the 
                Rio Puerco Management Committee to implement best 
                management practices in a coordinated, consistent, and 
                cost-effective manner;
                    (G) provide for the encouragement of, and support 
                implementation of, best management practices on private 
                lands; and
                    (H) provide for the development of proposals for a 
                monitoring system that--
                            (i) builds on existing data available from 
                        private, Federal, and State sources;
                            (ii) provides for the coordinated 
                        collection, evaluation, and interpretation of 
                        additional data as needed or collected; and
                            (iii) will provide information to--
                                    (I) assess existing resource and 
                                socioeconomic conditions;
                                    (II) identify priority 
                                implementation actions; and
                                    (III) assess the effectiveness of 
                                actions taken.

SEC. 2503. RIO PUERCO MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Rio Puerco Management 
Committee (referred to in this section as the ``Committee'').
    (b) Membership.--The Committee shall be convened by a 
representative of the Bureau of Land Management and shall include 
representatives from--
            (1) the Rio Puerco Watershed Committee;
            (2) affected tribes and pueblos;
            (3) the National Forest Service of the Department of 
        Agriculture;
            (4) the Bureau of Reclamation;
            (5) the United States Geological Survey;
            (6) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
            (7) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
            (8) the Army Corps of Engineers;
            (9) the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the 
        Department of Agriculture;
            (10) the State of New Mexico, including the New Mexico 
        Environment Department of the State Engineer;
            (11) affected local soil and water conservation districts;
            (12) the Elephant Butte Irrigation District;
            (13) private landowners; and
            (14) other interested citizens.
    (c) Duties.--The Rio Puerco Management Committee shall--
            (1) advise the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
        the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, on the 
        development and implementation of the Rio Puerco Management 
        Program described in section 2502; and
            (2) serve as a forum for information about activities that 
        may affect or further the development and implementation of the 
        best management practices described in section 2502.
    (d) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate on the date that is 
10 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2504. REPORT.

    Not later than the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior, 
in consultation with the Rio Puerco Management Committee, shall 
transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a 
report containing--
            (1) a summary of activities of the management program under 
        section 2502; and
            (2) proposals for joint implementation efforts, including 
        funding recommendations.

SEC. 2505. LOWER RIO GRANDE HABITAT STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with 
appropriate State agencies, shall conduct a study of the Rio Grande 
that--
            (1) shall cover the distance from Caballo Lake to Sunland 
        Park, New Mexico; and
            (2) may cover a greater distance.
    (b) Contents.--The study under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a survey of the current habitat conditions of the river 
        and its riparian environment;
            (2) identification of the changes in vegetation and habitat 
        over the past 400 years and the effect of the changes on the 
        river and riparian area; and
            (3) an assessment of the feasibility, benefits, and 
        problems associated with activities to prevent further habitat 
        loss and to restore habitat through reintroduction or 
        establishment of appropriate native plant species.
    (c) Transmittal.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
funds are made available to carry out this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall transmit the study under subsection (a) to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and to the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 2506. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out sections 2501, 
2502, 2503, 2504, and 2505 a total of $7,500,000 for the 10 fiscal 
years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

                       TITLE XXVI--COLUMBIA BASIN

SEC. 2601. LAND EXCHANGE.

    The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the 
``Secretary'') is authorized to convey to the Boise Cascade Corporation 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Corporation''), a corporation formed 
under the statutes of the State of Delaware, with its principal place 
of business at Boise, Idaho, title to approximately seven acres of 
land, more or less, located in sections 14 and 23, township 36 north, 
range 37 east, Willamette Meridian, Stevens County, Washington, further 
identified in the records of the Bureau of Reclamation, Department of 
the Interior, as Tract No. GC-19860, and to accept from the Corporation 
in exchange therefor, title to approximately one hundred and thirty-six 
acres of land located in section 19, township 37 north, range 38 east 
and section 33, township 38 north, range 37 east, Willamette Meridian, 
Stevens County, Washington, and further identified in the records of 
the Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior, as Tract No. GC-
19858 and Tract No. GC-19859, respectively.

SEC. 2602. APPRAISAL.

    The properties so exchanged either shall be approximately equal in 
fair market value or if they are not approximately equal, shall be 
equalized by the payment of cash to the Corporation or to the Secretary 
as required or in the event the value of the Corporation's lands is 
greater, the acreage may be reduced so that the fair market value is 
approximately equal: Provided, That the Secretary shall order 
appraisals made of the fair market value of each tract of land included 
in the exchange without consideration for improvements thereon: 
Provided further, That any cash payment received by the Secretary shall 
be covered in the Reclamation Fund and credited to the Columbia Basin 
project.

SEC. 2603. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

    Costs of conducting the necessary land surveys, preparing the legal 
description of the lands to be conveyed, performing the appraisals, and 
administrative costs incurred in completing the exchange shall be borne 
by the Corporation.

SEC. 2604. LIABILITY FOR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.

    (a) The Secretary shall not acquire any lands under this title if 
the Secretary determines that such lands, or any portion thereof, have 
become contaminated with hazardous substances (as defined in the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
(42 U.S.C. 9601)).
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
shall have no responsibility or liability with respect to any hazardous 
wastes or other substances placed on any of the lands covered by this 
title after their transfer to the ownership of any party, but nothing 
in this Act shall be construed as either diminishing or increasing any 
responsibility or liability of the United States based on the condition 
of such lands on the date of their transfer to the ownership of another 
party. The Corporation shall indemnify the United States for 
liabilities arising under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601), and the Resource 
Conservation Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purposes of this title.

                    TITLE XXVII--GRAND LAKE CEMETERY

SEC. 2701. MAINTENANCE OF CEMETERY IN ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK.

    (a) Agreement.--Notwithstanding any other law, not later than 6 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall enter into an appropriate form of agreement with the 
town of Grand Lake, Colorado, authorizing the town to maintain 
permanently, under appropriate terms and conditions, a cemetery within 
the boundaries of the Rocky Mountain National Park.
    (b) Cemetery Boundaries.--The cemetery shall be comprised of 
approximately 5 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Grand Lake Cemetery'' and dated February 1995.
    (c) Availability for Public Inspection.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall place the map described in subsection (b) on file, and 
make the map available for public inspection, in the headquarters 
office of the Rocky Mountain National Park.
    (d) Limitation.--The cemetery shall not be extended beyond the 
boundaries of the cemetery shown on the map described in subsection 
(b).

                    TITLE XXVIII--OLD SPANISH TRAIL

SEC. 2801. DESIGNATION.

    Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(36) The Old Spanish Trail, beginning in Santa Fe, New 
        Mexico, proceeding through Colorado and Utah, and ending in Los 
        Angeles, California, and the Northern Branch of the Old Spanish 
        Trail, beginning near Espanola, New Mexico, proceeding through 
        Colorado, and ending near Crescent Junction, Utah.''.

     TITLE XXIX--BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

SEC. 2901. BOUNDARY CHANCES.

    Section 2 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), is amended by striking the first sentence and inserting the 
following new sentence: ``The boundaries shall include the lands and 
water generally depicted on the map entitled Blackstone River Valley 
National Heritage Corridor Boundary Map, numbered BRV-80-80,011, and 
dated May 2, 1993.''.

SEC. 2902. TERMS.

    Section 3(c) of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the 
Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and 
Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 
U.S.C. 461 note), is amended by inserting immediately before the period 
at the end the following: ``, but may continue to serve after the 
expiration of this term until a successor has been appointed''.

SEC. 2903. REVISION OF PLAN.

    Section 6 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Revision of Plan.--(1) Not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this subsection, the Commission, with the approval of 
the Secretary, shall revise the Cultural Heritage and Land Management 
Plan. The revision shall address the boundary change and shall include 
a natural resource inventory of areas or features that should be 
protected, restored, managed, or acquired because of their contribution 
to the understanding of national cultural landscape values.
    ``(2) No changes other than minor revisions may be made in the 
approved plan as amended without the approval of the Secretary. The 
Secretary shall approve or disapprove any proposed change in the plan, 
except minor revisions, in accordance with subsection (b).''.

SEC. 2904. EXTENSION OF COMMISSION.

    Section 7 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), is amended to read as follows:

                      ``termination of commission

    ``Sec. 7. (a) Termination.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
the Commission shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the 
date of enactment of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage 
Corridor Amendments Act of 1995.
    ``(b) Extension.--The Commission may be extended for an additional 
term of 10 years if--
            ``(1) not later than 180 days before the termination of the 
        Commission, the Commission determines that an extension is 
        necessary to carry out this title;
            ``(2) the Commission submits a proposed extension to the 
        appropriate committees of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives; and
            ``(3) the Secretary, the Governor of Massachusetts, and the 
        Governor of Rhode Island each approve the extension.
    ``(c) Determination of Approval.--The Secretary shall approve the 
extension if the Secretary finds that--
            ``(1) the Governor of Massachusetts and the Governor of 
        Rhode Island provide adequate assurances of continued tangible 
        contribution and effective policy support toward achieving the 
        purposes of this title; and
            ``(2) the Commission is effectively assisting Federal, 
        State, and local authorities to retain, enhance, and interpret 
        the distinctive character and nationally significant resources 
        of the Corridor.''.

SEC. 2905. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN.

    Subsection (c) of section 8 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public 
Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Implementation.--(1) To assist in the implementation of the 
Cultural Heritage and Land Management Plan in a manner consistent with 
purposes of this title, the Secretary is authorized to undertake a 
limited program of financial assistance for the purpose of providing 
funds for the preservation and restoration of structures on or eligible 
for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places within the 
Corridor which exhibit national significance or provide a wide spectrum 
of historic, recreational, or environmental education opportunities to 
the general public.
    ``(2) To be eligible for funds under this section, the Commission 
shall submit an application to the Secretary that includes--
            ``(A) a 10-year development plan including those resource 
        protection needs and projects critical to maintaining or 
        interpreting the distinctive character of the Corridor; and
            ``(B) specific descriptions of annual work programs that 
        have been assembled, the participating parties, roles, cost 
        estimates, cost-sharing, or cooperative agreements necessary to 
        carry out the development plan.
    ``(3) Funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall not 
exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the work programs.
    ``(4) In making the funds available, the Secretary shall give 
priority to projects that attract greater non-Federal funding sources.
    ``(5) Any payment made for the purposes of conservation or 
restoration of real property or structures shall be subject to an 
agreement either--
            ``(A) to convey a conservation or preservation easement to 
        the Department of Environmental Management or to the Historic 
        Preservation Commission, as appropriate, of the State in which 
        the real property or structure is located; or
            ``(B) that conversion, use, or disposal of the resources so 
        assisted for purposes contrary to the purposes of this title, 
        as determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the 
        United States for reimbursement of all funds expended upon such 
        resources or the proportion of the increased value of the 
        resources attributable to such funds as determined at the time 
        of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.
    ``(6) The authority to determine that a conversion, use, or 
disposal of resources has been carried out contrary to the purposes of 
this title in violation of an agreement entered into under paragraph 
(5)(A) shall be solely at the discretion of the Secretary.''.

SEC. 2906. LOCAL AUTHORITY.

    Section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Local Authority and Private Property not Affected.--Nothing 
in this title shall be construed to affect or to authorize the 
Commission to interfere with--
            ``(1) the rights of any person with respect to private 
        property; or
            ``(2) any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the 
        Commonwealth of Massachusetts or a political subdivision of 
        such Commonwealth.''.

SEC. 2907. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 10 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), as amended, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``$350,000'' and 
        inserting ``$650,000''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Development Funds.--For fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998, 
there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 8(c), 
$5,000,000 in the aggregate.''.

                    TITLE XXX--CUPRUM, IDAHO RELIEF

SEC. 3001. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds and declares that:
            (1) In 1899, the citizens of Cuprum, Idaho, commissioned 
        E.S. Hesse to conduct a survey describing these lands occupied 
        by their community. The purpose of this survey was to provide a 
        basis for the application for a townsite patent.
            (2) In 1909, the Cuprum Townsite patent (Number 52817) was 
        granted, based on an aliquot parts description which was 
        intended to circumscribe the Hesse survey.
            (3) Since the day of the patent, the Hesse survey has been 
        used continuously by the community of Cuprum and by Adams 
        Country, Idaho, as the official townsite plat and basis for 
        conveyance of title within the townsite.
            (4) Recent boundary surveys conducted by the United States 
        Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, and the United 
        States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, 
        discovered inconsistencies between the official aliquot parts 
        description of the patented Cuprum Townsite and the Hesse 
        survey. Many lots along the south and east boundaries of the 
        townsite are now known to extend onto National Forest System 
        lands outside the townsite.
            (5) It is the determination of Congress that the original 
        intent of the Cuprum Townsite application was to include all 
        the lands described by the Hesse survey.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to amend the 1909 
Cuprum Townsite patent to include those additional lands described by 
the Hesse survey in addition to other lands necessary to provide an 
administratively acceptable boundary to the National Forest System.

SEC. 3002. AMENDMENT OF PATENT.

    (a) The 1909 Cuprum Townsite patent is hereby amended to include 
parcels 1 and 2, identified on the plat, marked as ``Township 20 North, 
Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, Idaho, Section 10: Proposed Patent 
Adjustment Cuprum Townsite, Idaho'' prepared by Payette N.F.--Land 
Survey Unit, drawn and approved by Tom Betzold, Forest Land Surveyor, 
on April 25, 1995. Such additional lands are hereby conveyed to the 
original patentee, Pitts Ellis, trustee, and Probate Judge of 
Washington County, Idaho, or any successors or assigns in interest in 
accordance with State law. The Secretary of Agriculture may correct 
clerical and typographical errors in such plat.
    (b) The Federal Government shall survey the Federal property lines 
and mark and post the boundaries necessary to implement this section.

SEC. 3003. RELEASE.

    Notwithstanding section 120 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
9620), the United States shall not be liable and shall be held harmless 
from any and all claims resulting from substances or petroleum products 
or any other hazardous materials on the conveyed land.

            TITLE XXXI--ARKANSAS AND OKLAHOMA LAND EXCHANGE

SEC. 3101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that:
            (1) The Weyerhaeuser Company has offered to the United 
        States Government an exchange of lands under which Weyerhaeuser 
        would receive approximately 48,000 acres of Federal land in 
        Arkansas and Oklahoma and all mineral interests and oil and gas 
        interests pertaining to these exchanged lands in which the 
        United States Government has an interest in return for 
        conveying to the United States lands owned by Weyerhaeuser 
        consisting of approximately 180,000 acres of forested wetlands 
        and other forest land of public interest in Arkansas and 
        Oklahoma and all mineral interests and all oil and gas interest 
        pertaining to 48,000 acres of these 180,000 acres of exchanged 
        lands in which Weyerhaeuser has an interest, consisting of:
                    (A) certain lands in Arkansas (Arkansas Ouachita 
                lands) located near Poteau Mountain, Caney Creek 
                Wilderness, Lake Ouachita, Little Missouri Wild and 
                Scenic River, Flatside Wilderness and the Ouachita 
                National Forest;
                    (B) certain lands in Oklahoma (Oklahoma lands) 
                located near the McCurtain County Wilderness, the 
                Broken Bow Reservoir, the Glover River, and the 
                Ouachita National Forest; and
                    (C) certain lands in Arkansas (Arkansas Cossatot 
                lands) located on the Little and Cossatot Rivers and 
                identified as the ``Pond Creek Bottoms'' in the Lower 
                Mississippi River Delta section of the North American 
                Waterfowl Management Plan;
            (2) acquisition of the Arkansas Cossatot lands by the 
        United States will remove the lands in the heart of a critical 
        wetland ecosystem from sustained timber production and other 
        development;
            (3) the acquisition of the Arkansas Ouachita lands and the 
        Oklahoma lands by the United States for administration by the 
        Forest Service will provide an opportunity for enhancement of 
        ecosystem management of the National Forest System lands and 
        resources;
            (4) the Arkansas Ouachita lands and the Oklahoma lands have 
        outstanding wildlife habitat and important recreational values 
        and should continue to be made available for activities such as 
        public hunting, fishing, trapping, nature observation, 
        enjoyment, education, and timber management whenever these 
        activities are consistent with applicable Federal laws and land 
        and resource management plans; these lands, especially in the 
        riparian zones, also harbor endangered, threatened and 
        sensitive plants and animals and the conservation and 
        restoration of these areas are important to the recreational 
        and educational public uses and will represent a valuable 
        ecological resource which should be conserved;
            (5) the private use of the lands the United States will 
        convey to Weyerhaeuser will not conflict with established 
        management objectives on adjacent Federal lands;
            (6) the lands the United States will convey to Weyerhaeuser 
        as part of the exchange described in paragraph (1) do not 
        contain comparable fish, wildlife, or wetland values;
            (7) the values of all lands, mineral interests, and oil and 
        gas interests to be exchanged between the United States and 
        Weyerhaeuser are approximately equal in value; and
            (8) the exchange of lands, mineral interests, and oil and 
        gas interests between Weyerhaeuser and the United States is in 
        the public interest.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to authorize and direct 
the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, subject 
to the terms of this title, to complete, as expeditiously as possible, 
an exchange of lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas interests with 
Weyerhaeuser that will provide environmental, land management, 
recreational, and economic benefits to the States of Arkansas and 
Oklahoma and to the United States.

SEC. 3102. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Land.--The terms ``land'' or ``lands'' mean the surface 
        estate and any other interests therein except for mineral 
        interests and oil and gas interests.
            (2) Mineral interests.--The term ``mineral interests'' 
        means geothermal steam and heat and all metals, ores, and 
        minerals of any nature whatsoever, except oil and gas 
        interests, in or upon lands subject to this title including, 
        but not limited to, coal, lignite, peat, rock, sand, gravel, 
        and quartz.
            (3) Oil and gas interests.--The term ``oil and gas 
        interests'' means all oil and gas of any nature, including 
        carbon dioxide, helium, and gas taken from coal seams 
        (collectively ``oil and gas'').
            (4) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (5) Weyerhaeuser.--The term ``Weyerhaeuser'' means 
        Weyerhaeuser Company, a company incorporated in the State of 
        Washington.

SEC. 3103. EXCHANGE.

    (a) Exchange of Lands and Mineral Interests.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (a)(2) and 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, within 90 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this title, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall convey to Weyerhaeuser, subject to any valid 
        existing rights, approximately 20,000 acres of Federal lands 
        and mineral interests in the State of Arkansas and 
        approximately 28,000 aces of Federal lands and mineral 
        interests in the State of Oklahoma as depicted on maps entitled 
        ``Arkansas-Oklahoma Land Exchange--Federal Arkansas and 
        Oklahoma Lands'', dated February 1996 and available for public 
        inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretaries.
            (2) Offer and acceptance of lands.--The Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall make the conveyance to Weyerhaeuser if 
        Weyerhaeuser conveys deeds of title to the United States, 
        subject to limitations and the reservation described in 
        subsection (b) and which are acceptable to and approved by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to the following:
                    (A) approximately 120,000 acres of lands and 
                mineral interests owned by Weyerhaeuser in the State of 
                Oklahoma, as depicted on a map entitled ``Arkansas-
                Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser Oklahoma Lands'', 
                dated February 1996 and available for public inspection 
                in appropriate offices of the Secretaries;
                    (B) approximately 35,000 acres of lands and mineral 
                interests owned by Weyerhaeuser in the State of 
                Arkansas, as depicted on a map entitled ``Arkansas-
                Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser Arkansas Ouachita 
                Lands'', dated February 1996 and available for public 
                inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretaries; 
                and
                    (C) approximately 25,000 acres of lands and mineral 
                interests owned by Weyerhaeuser in the State of 
                Arkansas, as depicted on a map entitled ``Arkansas-
                Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser Arkansas Cossatot 
                Lands'', dated February 1996 and available for public 
                inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretaries.
    (b) Exchange of Oil and Gas Interests.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (b)(2) and 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, at the same time as 
        the exchange for land and mineral interests is carried out 
        pursuant to this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        exchange all Federal oil and gas interests, including existing 
        leases and other agreements, in the lands described in 
        paragraph (a)(1) for equivalent oil and gas interests, 
        including existing leases and other agreements, owned by 
        Weyerhaeuser in the lands described in paragraph (a)(2).
            (2) Reservation.--In addition to the exchange of oil and 
        gas interests pursuant to paragraph (b)(1), Weyerhaeuser shall 
        reserve oil and gas interests in and under the lands depicted 
        for reservation upon a map entitled ``Arkansas-Oklahoma Land 
        Exchange--Weyerhaeuser Oil and Gas Interest Reservation 
        Lands'', dated February 1996 and available for public 
        inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretaries. Such 
        reservation shall be subject to the provisions of this title 
        and a Memorandum of Understanding jointly agreed to by the 
        Forest Service and Weyerhaeuser. Such Memorandum of 
        Understanding shall be completed no later than 60 days after 
        date of enactment of this title and shall be transmitted to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
        Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United States 
        House of Representatives. The Memorandum of Understanding shall 
        not become effective until 30 days after it is received by the 
        Committees.
    (c) General Provisions.--
            (1) Maps controlling.--The acreage cited in this title is 
        approximate. In the case of a discrepancy between the 
        description of lands, mineral interests, or oil and gas 
        interests to be exchanged pursuant to subsection (a) and the 
        lands, mineral interests, or oil and gas interest depicted on a 
        map referred to in such subsection, the map shall control. 
        Subject to the notification required by paragraph (3), the maps 
        referenced in this title shall be subject to such minor 
        corrections as may be agreed upon by the Secretaries and 
        Weyerhaeuser.
            (2) Final maps.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        conclusion of the exchange required by subsections (a) and (b), 
        the Secretaries shall transmit maps accurately depicting the 
        lands and mineral interests conveyed and transferred pursuant 
        to this title and the acreage and boundary descriptions of such 
        lands and mineral interests to the Committees on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources 
        of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Cancellation.--If, before the exchange has been carried 
        out pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), Weyerhaeuser provides 
        written notification to the Secretaries that Weyerhaeuser no 
        longer intends to complete the exchange, with respect to the 
        lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas interests that would 
        otherwise be subject to the exchange, the status of such lands, 
        mineral interests, and oil and gas interests shall revert to 
        the status of such lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas 
        interests as of the day before the date of enactment of this 
        title and shall be managed in accordance with applicable law 
        and management plans.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        lands and interests therein depicted for conveyance to 
        Weyerhaeuser on the maps referenced in subsections (a) and (b) 
        are withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under 
        the public land laws (including the mining laws) and from the 
        operation of mineral leasing and geothermal steam leasing laws 
        effective upon the date of the enactment of this title. Such 
        withdrawal shall terminate 45 days after completion of the 
        exchange provided for in subsections (a) and (b) or on the date 
        of notification by Weyerhaeuser of a decision not to complete 
        the exchange.

SEC. 3104. DESIGNATION AND USE OF LANDS ACQUIRED BY THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) National Forest System.--
            (1) Addition to the system.--Upon approval and acceptance 
        of title by the Secretary of Agriculture, the 155,000 acres of 
        land conveyed to the United States pursuant to section 
        3103(a)(2) (A) and (B) of this Act shall be subject to the Act 
        of March 1, 1911 (commonly known as the ``Weeks Law'') (36 
        Stat. 961, as amended), and shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the laws and 
        regulations pertaining to the National Forest system.
            (2) Plan amendments.--No later than 12 months after the 
        completion of the exchange required by this title, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall begin the process to amend 
        applicable land and resource management plans with public 
        involvement pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland 
        Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, as amended by the 
        National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1604).
    (b) Other.--
            (1) Addition to the national wildlife refuge system.--Once 
        acquired by the United States, the 25,000 acres of land 
        identified in section 3103(a)(2)(C), the Arkansas Cossatot 
        lands, shall be managed by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        component of the Cossatot National Wildlife Refuge in 
        accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System 
        Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee).
            (2) Plan preparation.--Within 24 months after the 
        completion of the exchange required by this title, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall prepare and implement a single 
        refuge management plan for the Cossatot National Wildlife 
        Refuge, as expanded by this title. Such plans shall recognize 
        the important public purposes served by the nonconsumptive 
        activities, other recreational activities, and wildlife-related 
        public use, including hunting, fishing, and trapping. The plan 
        shall permit, to the maximum extent practicable, compatible 
        uses to the extent that they are consistent with sound wildlife 
        management and in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and 
        other applicable laws. Any regulations promulgated by the 
        Secretary of the Interior with respect to hunting, fishing, and 
        trapping on those lands shall, to the extent practicable, be 
        consistent with State fish and wildlife laws and regulations. 
        In preparing the management plan and regulations, the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall consult with the Arkansas Game and Fish 
        Commission.
            (3) Interim use of lands.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph 
                (2), during the period beginning on the date of the 
                completion of the exchange of lands required by this 
                title and ending on the first date of the 
                implementation of the plan prepared under paragraph 
                (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall administer all 
                lands added to the Cossatot National Wildlife Refuge 
                pursuant to this title in accordance with the National 
                Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 
                U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and other applicable laws.
                    (B) Hunting seasons.--During the period described 
                in subparagraph (A), the duration of any hunting season 
                on the lands described in subsection (1) shall comport 
                with the applicable State law.

SEC. 3105. OUACHITA NATIONAL FOREST BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--Upon acceptance of title by the Secretary of 
Agriculture of the lands conveyed to the United States pursuant to 
section 3103(a)(2) (A) and (B), the boundaries of the Ouachita National 
Forest shall be adjusted to encompass those lands conveyed to the 
United States generally depicted on the appropriate maps referred to in 
section 3103(a). Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of 
the Secretary of Agriculture to adjust the boundary pursuant to section 
11 of the Weeks Law of March 1, 1911. For the purposes of section 7 of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-9), 
the boundaries of the Ouachita National Forest, as adjusted by this 
title, shall be considered to be the boundaries of the Forest as of 
January 1, 1965.
    (b) Maps and Boundary Descriptions.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
prepare a boundary description of the lands depicted on the map(s) 
referred to in section 3103(a)(2) (A) and (B). Such map(s) and boundary 
description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this 
title, except that the Secretary of Agriculture may correct clerical 
and typographical errors.

               TITLE XXXII--BIG THICKET NATIONAL PRESERVE

SEC. 3201. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) under the Big Thicket National Preserve Addition Act of 
        1993 (Public Law 103-46), Congress increased the size of the 
        Big Thicket National Preserve through authorized land 
        exchanges;
            (2) such land exchanges were not consummated by July 1, 
        1995, as required by Public Law 103-46; and
            (3) failure to consummate such land exchanges by the end of 
        the three-year extension provided by this Act will necessitate 
        further intervention and direction from Congress concerning 
        such land exchanges.

SEC. 3202. TIME PERIOD FOR LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Extension.--The last sentence of subsection (d) of the first 
section of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize the establishment of 
the Big Thicket National Preserve in the State of Texas, and for other 
purposes'', approved October 11, 1974 (16 U.S.C. 698(d)), is amended by 
striking out ``two years after date of enactment'' and inserting ``five 
years after the date of enactment''.
    (b) Independent Appraisal.--Subsection (d) of the first section of 
such Act (16 U.S.C. 698(d)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The Secretary, in considering the values of the private 
lands to be exchanged under this subsection, shall consider independent 
appraisals submitted by the owners of the private lands.''.
    (c) Limitation.--Subsection (d) of the first section of such Act 
(16 U.S.C. 698(d)), as amended by subsection (b), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``The authority to exchange lands 
under this subsection shall expire on July 1, 1998.''.

SEC. 3203. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act and every six months thereafter until the earlier of the 
consummation of the exchange or July 1, 1998, the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall each submit a report to 
the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate concerning the 
progress in consummating the land exchange authorized by the amendments 
made by Big Thicket National Preserve Addition Act of 1993 (Public Law 
103-46).

SEC. 3204. LAND EXCHANGE IN LIBERTY COUNTY, TEXAS.

    If, within one year after the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) the owners of the private lands described in subsection 
        (b)(1) offer to transfer all their right, title, and interest 
        in and to such lands to the Secretary of the Interior, and
            (2) Liberty County, Texas, agrees to accept the transfer of 
        the Federal lands described in subsection (b)(2),
the Secretary shall accept such offer of private lands and, in exchange 
and without additional consideration, transfer to Liberty County, 
Texas, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
the Federal lands described in subsection (b)(2).
    (b) Lands Described.--
            (1) Private lands.--The private lands described in this 
        paragraph are approximately 3.76 acres of lands located in 
        Liberty County, Texas, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Big Thicket Lake Estates Access--Proposed''.
            (2) Federal lands.--The Federal lands described in this 
        paragraph are approximately 2.38 acres of lands located in 
        Menard Creek Corridor Unit of the Big Thicket National 
        Preserve, as generally depicted on the map referred to in 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) Administration of Lands Acquired by the United States.--The 
lands acquired by the Secretary under this section shall be added to 
and administered as part of the Menard Creek Corridor Unit of the Big 
Thicket National Preserve.

           TITLE XXXIII--TALLGRASS PRAIRIE NATIONAL PRESERVE

SEC. 3301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Tallgrass Prairie National 
Preserve Act of 1996''.

SEC. 3302. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) of the 400,000 square miles of tallgrass prairie that 
        once covered the North American Continent, less than 1 percent 
        remains, primarily in the Flint Hills of Kansas;
            (2) in 1991, the National Park Service conducted a special 
        resource study of the Spring Hill Ranch, located in the Flint 
        Hills of Kansas;
            (3) the study concludes that the Spring Hill Ranch--
                    (A) is a nationally significant example of the once 
                vast tallgrass ecosystem, and includes buildings listed 
                on the National Register of Historic Places pursuant to 
                section 101 of the National Historic Preservation Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 470a) that represent outstanding examples of 
                Second Empire and other 19th Century architectural 
                styles; and
                    (B) is suitable and feasible as a potential 
                addition to the National Park System; and
            (4) the National Park Trust, which owns the Spring Hill 
        Ranch, has agreed to permit the National Park Service--
                    (A) to purchase a portion of the ranch, as 
                specified in this title; and
                    (B) to manage the ranch in order to--
                            (i) conserve the scenery, natural and 
                        historic objects, and wildlife of the ranch; 
                        and
                            (ii) provide for the enjoyment of the ranch 
                        in such a manner and by such means as will 
                        leave the scenery, natural and historic 
                        objects, and wildlife unimpaired for the 
                        enjoyment of future generations.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to preserve, protect, and interpret for the public an 
        example of a tallgrass prairie ecosystem on the Spring Hill 
        Ranch, located in the Flint Hills of Kansas; and
            (2) to preserve and interpret for the public the historic 
        and cultural values represented on the Spring Hill Ranch.

SEC. 3303. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the Advisory Committee established under section 3307.
            (2) Preserve.--The term ``Preserve'' means the Tallgrass 
        Prairie National Preserve established by section 3304.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Trust.--The term ``Trust'' means the National Park 
        Trust, Inc., a District of Columbia nonprofit corporation, or 
        any successor-in-interest.

SEC. 3304. ESTABLISHMENT OF TALLGRASS PRAIRIE NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    (a) In General.--In order to provide for the preservation, 
restoration, and interpretation of the Spring Hill Ranch area of the 
Flint Hills of Kansas, for the benefit and enjoyment of present and 
future generations, there is established the Tallgrass Prairie National 
Preserve.
    (b) Description.--The Preserve shall consist of the lands and 
interests in land, including approximately 10,894 acres, generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary Map, Flint Hills Prairie 
National Monument'' numbered NM-TGP 80,000 and dated June 1994, more 
particularly described in the deed filed at 8:22 a.m. of June 3, 1994, 
with the Office of the Register of Deeds in Chase County, Kansas, and 
recorded in Book L-106 at pages 328 through 339, inclusive. In the case 
of any difference between the map and the legal description, the legal 
description shall govern, except that if, as a result of a survey, the 
Secretary determines that there is a discrepancy with respect to the 
boundary of the Preserve that may be corrected by making minor changes 
to the map, the Secretary shall make changes to the map as appropriate, 
and the boundaries of the Preserve shall be adjusted accordingly. The 
map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the National Park Service of the Department of 
the Interior.

SEC. 3305. ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the Preserve in 
accordance with this title, the cooperative agreements described in 
subsection (f)(1), and the provisions of law generally applicable to 
units of the National Park System, including the Act entitled ``An Act 
to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes'', 
approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1, 2 through 4) and the Act of 
August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
    (b) Application of Regulations.--With the consent of a private 
owner of land within the boundaries of the Preserve, the regulations 
issued by the Secretary concerning the National Park Service that 
provide for the proper use, management, and protection of persons, 
property, and natural and cultural resources shall apply to the private 
land.
    (c) Facilities.--For purposes of carrying out the duties of the 
Secretary under this title relating to the Preserve, the Secretary may, 
with the consent of a landowner, directly or by contract, construct, 
reconstruct, rehabilitate, or develop essential buildings, structures, 
and related facilities including roads, trails, and other interpretive 
facilities on real property that is not owned by the Federal Government 
and is located within the Preserve.
    (d) Liability of Landowners.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, no person that owns any land or interest in land within the 
Preserve shall be liable for injury to, or damages suffered by, any 
other person that is injured or damaged while on the land within the 
Preserve if--
            (1) the injury or damages result from any act or omission 
        of the Secretary or any officer, employee, or agent of the 
        Secretary or of a person other than the owner, a guest of the 
        owner, or a person having business with the owner; or
            (2) the injury or damages are suffered by a visitor to the 
        Preserve, and the injury or damages are not proximately caused 
        by the wanton or willful misconduct of, or a negligent act (as 
        distinguished from a failure to act) of, the person that owns 
        the land.
    (e) Unit of the National Park System.--The Preserve shall be a unit 
of the National Park System for all purposes, including the purpose of 
exercising authority to charge entrance and admission fees under 
section 4 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 
U.S.C. 460l-6a).
    (f) Agreements and Donations.--
            (1) Agreements.--The Secretary may expend Federal funds for 
        the cooperative management of private property within the 
        Preserve for research, resource management (including pest 
        control and noxious weed control, fire protection, and the 
        restoration of buildings), and visitor protection and use.
            (2) Donations.--The Secretary may accept, retain, and 
        expend donations of funds, property (other than real property), 
        or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or 
        public entities for the purposes of providing programs, 
        services, facilities, or technical assistance that further the 
        purposes of this title.
    (g) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the end of the third full 
        fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives a general management 
        plan for the Preserve.
            (2) Consultation.--In preparing the general management 
        plan, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the 
        National Park Service, shall consult with--
                    (A)(i) appropriate officials of the Trust; and
                    (ii) the Advisory Committee; and
                    (B) adjacent landowners, appropriate officials of 
                nearby communities, the Kansas Department of Wildlife 
                and Parks, and the Kansas Historical Society, and other 
                interested parties.
            (3) Content of plan.--The general management plan shall 
        provide for the following:
                    (A) Maintaining and enhancing the tallgrass prairie 
                within the boundaries of the Preserve.
                    (B) Public access and enjoyment of the property 
                that is consistent with the conservation and proper 
                management of the historical, cultural, and natural 
                resources of the ranch.
                    (C) Interpretive and educational programs covering 
                the natural history of the prairie, the cultural 
                history of Native Americans, and the legacy of ranching 
                in the Flint Hills region.
                    (D) Provisions requiring the application of 
                applicable State law concerning the maintenance of 
                adequate fences within the boundaries of the Preserve. 
                In any case in which an activity of the National Park 
                Service requires fences that exceed the legal fence 
                standard otherwise applicable to the Preserve, the 
                National Park Service shall pay the additional cost of 
                constructing and maintaining the fences to meet the 
                applicable requirements for that activity.
                    (E) Provisions requiring the Secretary to comply 
                with applicable State noxious weed, pesticide, and 
                animal health laws.
                    (F) Provisions requiring compliance with applicable 
                State water laws and Federal and State waste disposal 
                laws (including regulations) and any other applicable 
                law.
                    (G) Provisions requiring the Secretary to honor 
                each valid existing oil and gas lease for lands within 
                the boundaries of the Preserve (as described in section 
                3304(b)) that is in effect on the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (H) Provisions requiring the Secretary to offer to 
                enter into an agreement with each individual who, as of 
                the date of enactment of this Act, holds rights for 
                cattle grazing within the boundaries of the Preserve 
                (as described in section 3304(b)).
            (4) Hunting and Fishing.--The Secretary may allow hunting 
        and fishing on Federal lands within the Preserve.
            (5) Financial analysis.--As part of the development of the 
        general management plan, the Secretary shall prepare a 
        financial analysis indicating how the management of the 
        Preserve may be fully supported through fees, private 
        donations, and other forms of non-Federal funding.

SEC. 3306. LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall acquire, by donation, not more 
than 180 acres of real property within the boundaries of the Preserve 
(as described in section 3304(b)) and the improvements on the real 
property.
    (b) Payments in Lieu of Taxes.--For the purposes of payments made 
under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, the real property 
described in subsection (a)(1) shall be deemed to have been acquired 
for the purposes specified in section 6904(a) of that title.
    (c) Prohibitions.--No property may be acquired under this section 
without the consent of the owner of the property. The United States may 
not acquire fee ownership of any lands within the Preserve other than 
lands described in this section.

SEC. 3307. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established an advisory committee to 
be known as the ``Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve Advisory 
Committee''.
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the Secretary and 
the Director of the National Park Service concerning the development, 
management, and interpretation of the Preserve. In carrying out those 
duties, the Advisory Committee shall provide timely advice to the 
Secretary and the Director during the preparation of the general 
management plan under section 3305(g).
    (c) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 13 
members, who shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:
            (1) Three members shall be representatives of the Trust.
            (2) Three members shall be representatives of local 
        landowners, cattle ranchers, or other agricultural interests.
            (3) Three members shall be representatives of conservation 
        or historic preservation interests.
            (4)(A) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by the Chase County Commission in the State of 
        Kansas.
            (B) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by appropriate officials of Strong City, Kansas, 
        and Cottonwood Falls, Kansas.
            (C) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by the Governor of the State of Kansas.
            (5) One member shall be a range management specialist 
        representing institutions of higher education (as defined in 
        section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1141(a))) in the State of Kansas.
    (d) Terms.--
            (1) In general.--Each member of the Advisory Committee 
        shall be appointed to serve for a term of 3 years, except that 
        the initial members shall be appointed as follows:
                    (A) Four members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (c), to 
                serve for a term of 3 years.
                    (B) Four members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (c), to 
                serve for a term of 4 years.
                    (C) Five members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c), to serve 
                for a term of 5 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--Each member may be reappointed to serve 
        a subsequent term.
            (3) Expiration.--Each member shall continue to serve after 
        the expiration of the term of the member until a successor is 
        appointed.
            (4) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Advisory Committee shall 
        be filled in the same manner as an original appointment is 
        made. The member appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve 
        until the expiration of the term in which the vacancy occurred.
    (e) Chairperson.--The members of the Advisory Committee shall 
select 1 of the members to serve as Chairperson.
    (f) Meetings.--Meetings of the Advisory Committee shall be held at 
the call of the Chairperson or the majority of the Advisory Committee. 
Meetings shall be held at such locations and in such a manner as to 
ensure adequate opportunity for public involvement. In compliance with 
the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), 
the Advisory Committee shall choose an appropriate means of providing 
interested members of the public advance notice of scheduled meetings.
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Advisory Committee 
shall constitute a quorum.
    (h) Compensation.--Each member of the Advisory Committee shall 
serve without compensation, except that while engaged in official 
business of the Advisory Committee, the member shall be entitled to 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence in the same 
manner as persons employed intermittently in Government service under 
section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (i) Charter.--The rechartering provisions of section 14(b) of the 
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
Advisory Committee.

SEC. 3308. RESTRICTION ON AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this title shall give the Secretary authority to 
regulate lands outside the land area acquired by the Secretary under 
section 3306(a).

SEC. 3309. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the 
Interior such sums as are necessary to carry out this title.

                 TITLE XXXIV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 3401. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN PROPERTY TO THE BIG HORN COUNTY SCHOOL 
              DISTRICT NUMBER 1, WYOMING.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall convey, by quit claim deed, to 
the Big Horn County School District Number 1, Wyoming, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the following 
described lands in Big Horn County, Wyoming: Lots 19-24 of Block 22, 
all within the town of Frannie, Wyoming, in the S\1/2\NW\1/4\NW\1/4\ 
and N\1/2\SW\1/4\NW\1/4\ of section 31 of T. 58N., R. 97 W., Big Horn 
County.

SEC. 3402. RELINQUISHMENT OF INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--The United States relinquishes all right, title, 
and interest that the United States may have in land that--
            (1) was subject to a right-of-way that was granted to the 
        predecessor of the Chicago and Northwestern Transportation 
        Company under the Act entitled ``An Act granting to railroads 
        the right of way through the public lands of the United 
        States'', approved March 3, 1875 (43 U.S.C. 934 et seq.), which 
        right-of-way the Company has conveyed to the city of Douglas, 
        Wyoming; and
            (2) is located within the boundaries of the city limits of 
        the city of Douglas, Wyoming, or between the right-of-way of 
        Interstate 25 and the city limits of the city of Douglas, 
        Wyoming,
as determined by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the 
appropriate officials of the city of Douglas, Wyoming.
    (b) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall file for recordation 
in the real property records of Converse County, Wyoming, a deed or 
other appropriate form of instrument conveying to the city of Douglas, 
Wyoming, all right, title, and interest in the land described in 
subsection (a).

SEC. 3403. LOST CREEK LAND EXCHANGE.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a plan to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives detailing the 
terms and conditions for the exchange of certain lands and interests in 
land owned by the R-Y Timber, Inc., its successors and assigns or 
affiliates located in the Lost Creek area and other areas of the 
Deerlodge National Forest, Montana.

SEC. 3404. VANCOUVER NATIONAL HISTORIC RESERVE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Vancouver National 
Historic Reserve in the State of Washington (referred to in this 
section as the ``Reserve''), consisting of the area described in the 
report entitled ``Vancouver National Historic Reserve Feasibility Study 
and Environmental Assessment'' published by the Vancouver Historical 
Study Commission and dated April 1993 as authorized by Public Law 101-
523 (referred to in this section as the ``Vancouver Historic Reserve 
Report'').
    (b) Administration.--The Reserve shall be administered in 
accordance with--
            (1) the Vancouver Historic Reserve Report (including the 
        specific findings and recommendations contained in the report); 
        and
            (2) the Memorandum of Agreement between the Secretary of 
        the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park 
        Service, and the City of Vancouver, Washington, dated November 
        14, 1994.
    (c) No Limitation on FAA Authority.--The establishment of the 
Reserve shall not limit--
            (1) the authority of the Federal Aviation Administration 
        over air traffic control, or aviation activities at Pearson 
        Airpark; or
            (2) limit operations and airspace in the vicinity of 
        Portland International Airport.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
104th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1296

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT

HR 1296 EAS----2
HR 1296 EAS----3
HR 1296 EAS----4
HR 1296 EAS----5
HR 1296 EAS----6
HR 1296 EAS----7
HR 1296 EAS----8
HR 1296 EAS----9
HR 1296 EAS----10
HR 1296 EAS----11
HR 1296 EAS----12
HR 1296 EAS----13
HR 1296 EAS----14
HR 1296 EAS----15