[118th Congress Public Law 158]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1721]]

                        AMERICAN RELIEF ACT, 2025

[[Page 138 STAT. 1722]]

Public Law 118-158
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2025, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 21, 
                         2024 -  [H.R. 10545]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: American Relief 
Act, 2025.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Relief Act, 2025''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.

         DIVISION A--FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025

    DIVISION B--DISASTER RELIEF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025

                           DIVISION C--HEALTH

Sec. 3001. Short title; table of contents.

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC HEALTH EXTENDERS

Sec. 3101. Extension for community health centers, National Health 
           Service Corps, and teaching health centers that operate GME 
           programs.
Sec. 3102. Extension of special diabetes programs.
Sec. 3103. National health security extensions.

                           TITLE II--MEDICARE

Sec. 3201. Extension of increased inpatient hospital payment adjustment 
           for certain low-volume hospitals.
Sec. 3202. Extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program.
Sec. 3203. Extension of add-on payments for ambulance services.
Sec. 3204. Extension of funding for quality measure endorsement, input, 
           and selection.
Sec. 3205. Extension of funding outreach and assistance for low-income 
           programs.
Sec. 3206. Extension of the work geographic index floor.
Sec. 3207. Extension of certain telehealth flexibilities.
Sec. 3208. Extending acute hospital care at home waiver authorities.
Sec. 3209. Extension of temporary inclusion of authorized oral antiviral 
           drugs as covered part D drugs.
Sec. 3210. Medicare improvement fund.

                        TITLE III--HUMAN SERVICES

Sec. 3301. Sexual risk avoidance education extension.
Sec. 3302. Personal responsibility education extension.
Sec. 3303. Extension of funding for family-to-family health information 
           centers.

                           TITLE IV--MEDICAID

Sec. 3401. Eliminating certain disproportionate share hospital payment 
           cuts.

             DIVISION D--EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

Sec. 4101. Extension of agricultural programs.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1723]]

                        DIVISION E--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 5101. Commodity futures trading commission whistleblower program.
Sec. 5102. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
           aircraft.
Sec. 5103. Additional special assessment.
Sec. 5104. National cybersecurity protection system authorization.
Sec. 5105. Extension of temporary order for fentanyl-related substances.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>> REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

  DIVISION A <<NOTE: Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2025.>> --
FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025

    Sec. 101.  The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2025 (division A of 
Public Law 118-83) is amended--
            (1) by striking the date specified in section 
        106(3) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1526.>> and inserting ``March 14, 
        2025'';
            (2) in section 126 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1529.>> to read as 
        follows:

    ``Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`District of Columbia--Federal Payment for Emergency Planning and 
Security Costs in the District of Columbia' at a rate for operations of 
$90,000,000, of which not less than $50,000,000 shall be for costs 
associated with the Presidential Inauguration to be held in January 
2025: Provided, That such amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain emergency planning and security 
activities.''; and
            (3) by adding after section 152 the following new sections:

    ``Sec. 153.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `Department 
of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--
Procurement, Acquisition and Construction' may be apportioned up to the 
rate for operations necessary to maintain the acquisition schedule for 
Geostationary Earth Orbit in an amount not to exceed $625,000,000.
    ``Sec. 154.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `Department 
of Justice--Justice Operations, Management and Accountability--Justice 
Information Sharing Technology' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to carry out proactive vulnerability detection and 
penetration testing activities.
    ``Sec. 155.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, there is appropriated to the Department of Justice for `Federal 
Bureau of Investigation--Salaries and Expenses', $16,668,000, for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to conduct risk reduction and modification of 
National Security Systems: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    ``Sec. 156. (a) Amounts made available by section 101 to the 
Department of Defense for `Procurement--Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy', may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary for 
`Columbia Class Submarine (AP)' in an amount not to exceed 
$5,996,130,000.
    ``(b) Amounts made available by section 101 to the Department of 
Defense for `Procurement--Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary for `Columbia Class 
Submarine' in an amount not to exceed $2,922,300,000.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1724]]

    ``Sec. 157. (a) In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, there is appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
`Procurement--Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy', $5,691,000,000, for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until 
September 30, 2029, for the Virginia Class Submarine program and for 
workforce wage and non-executive salary improvements for other nuclear-
powered vessel programs: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    ``(b) Amounts appropriated by subsection (a) may be used to 
incrementally fund contract obligations for the improvement of workforce 
wages and non-executive level salaries on new or existing contracts 
pertaining to the Virginia Class Submarine program or to other nuclear-
powered vessel programs.
    ``Sec. 158.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, there is appropriated to the Department of Defense for `Operation 
and Maintenance--Defense-Wide', $913,440,000, for an additional amount 
for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to 
conduct risk reduction and modification of National Security Systems: 
Provided, That the amount provided by this section may be transferred to 
accounts under the headings `Operation and Maintenance', `Procurement', 
and `Research, Development, Test and Evaluation': Provided further, That 
funds transferred pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be merged with 
and available for the same purpose and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which the funds are transferred: Provided further, 
That any transfer authority provided herein is in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided by law: Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    ``Sec. 159. (a) Amounts made available by section 101 for 
`Department of Energy--Atomic Energy Defense Activities--Environmental 
and Other Defense Activities--Other Defense Activities' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to sustain 
specialized security activities.
    ``(b) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget and the Secretary of Energy shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 3 days after each use of the authority provided in 
subsection (a).

    ``Sec. 160.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, there is appropriated to the Department of Energy for `Atomic 
Energy Defense Activities--Environmental and Other Defense Activities--
Other Defense Activities', $1,750,000, for an additional amount for 
fiscal year 2025, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to 
conduct risk reduction and modification of National Security Systems: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    ``Sec. 161.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During the period covered by 
this Act, section 10609(a) of the Northwestern New Mexico Rural Water 
Projects Act (subtitle B of title X of Public Law 111-11) shall be 
applied

[[Page 138 STAT. 1725]]

by substituting `$1,640,000,000' for `$870,000,000' and `2025' for 
`2024'.

    ``Sec. 162.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, there is appropriated to the Department of the Treasury for 
`Departmental Offices--Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence--
Salaries and Expenses', $908,000, for an additional amount for fiscal 
year 2025, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to conduct risk 
reduction and modification of National Security Systems: Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    ``Sec. 163.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Section 302 of title III of 
Public Law 108-494 shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this Act for `December 31, 2024' each place it 
appears.

    ``Sec. 164. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  (a) Notwithstanding section 
101, section 747 of title VII of division B of Public Law 118-47 shall 
be applied through the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act by--
            ``(1) substituting `2024' for `2023' each place it appears;
            ``(2) substituting `2025' for `2024' each place it appears;
            ``(3) substituting `2026' for `2025'; and
            ``(4) substituting `section 747 of division B of Public Law 
        118-47, as in effect on September 30, 2024' for `section 747 of 
        division E of Public Law 117-328' each place it appears.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subsection (a) shall not take effect 
until the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or 
after January 1, 2025.

    ``Sec. 165. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>>   Amounts made available by 
section 101 for `Department of Education--Student Aid Administration' 
may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to ensure the 
continuation of student loan servicing activities and student aid 
application and eligibility determination processes.

    ``Sec. 166.  During the period covered by this Act, section 123 of 
division A of Public Law 118-42 and the provisions carrying the same 
restriction in prior Acts making appropriations to the Department of 
Defense for military construction shall not apply to unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations made available under the heading 
`Department of Defense--Military Construction, Army' and such balances 
may be obligated for an access road project at Arlington National 
Cemetery.
    ``Sec. 167. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the second proviso 
under the heading `Department of Veterans Affairs--Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Services' shall not apply during the period 
covered by this Act.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 101, the second proviso under the 
heading `Department of Veterans Affairs--Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Community Care' shall not apply during the 
period covered by this Act.
    ``(c) Notwithstanding section 101, the second proviso under the 
heading `Department of Veterans Affairs--Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Support and Compliance' shall not apply during 
the period covered by this Act.
    ``Sec. 168. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Notwithstanding section 101, 
the fifth and sixth provisos under the heading `Millennium Challenge 
Corporation' in division F of Public Law 118-47 shall be applied by 
substituting `December 31, 2025' for `December 31, 2024' each place it 
appears.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1726]]

    ``Sec. <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> 169.  Amounts made available by 
section 101 for `Department of Transportation--Federal Aviation 
Administration--Operations' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to fund mandatory pay increases and other 
inflationary adjustments, to maintain and improve air traffic services, 
to hire and train air traffic controllers, and to continue aviation 
safety oversight, while avoiding service reductions.''.

     This division may be cited as the ``Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2025''.

 DIVISION B-- <<NOTE: Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2025.>> DISASTER RELIEF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2025, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                   Processing, Research, and Marketing

                         office of the secretary

    For an additional amount for ``Office of the Secretary'', 
$30,780,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses related to losses of revenue, quality or production of crops 
(including milk, on-farm stored commodities, crops prevented from 
planting, and harvested adulterated wine grapes), trees, bushes, and 
vines, as a consequence of droughts, wildfires, hurricanes, floods, 
derechos, excessive heat, tornadoes, winter storms, freeze, including a 
polar vortex, smoke exposure, and excessive moisture occurring in 
calendar years 2023 and 2024 under such terms and conditions as 
determined by the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this title as 
``Secretary''): Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Time period.>> That of 
the amounts provided in this paragraph under this heading in this Act, 
the Secretary shall use up to $2,000,000,000 to provide assistance to 
producers of livestock, as determined by the Secretary, for losses 
incurred during calendar years 2023 and 2024 due to drought, wildfires, 
or floods: Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That the Secretary 
may provide assistance for such losses in the form of block grants to 
eligible States and territories and such assistance may include 
compensation to producers, as determined by the Secretary, for timber 
(including payments to non-Federal forest landowners), citrus, pecan, 
and poultry (including infrastructure) losses, and for agricultural 
producers who have suffered losses due to the failure of Mexico to 
deliver water to the United States in accordance with the 1944 Water 
Treaty: Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading in this Act, the Secretary shall offer individualized technical 
assistance to interested non-insured producers to help them apply for 
assistance made available under this heading: Provided further, That of 
the amounts made available

[[Page 138 STAT. 1727]]

under this paragraph under this heading in this Act, the Secretary may 
use up to $30,000,000, for reimbursement for administrative and 
operating expenses available for crop insurance contracts for 2022 and 
2023 reinsurance years in a manner consistent with Section 771 of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328): Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this paragraph under 
this heading in this Act, and without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3501 et. seq., 
the Secretary shall use $3,000,000 to carry out regular testing for the 
purposes of verifying and validating the methodology and protocols of 
the inspection of molasses at any United States ports of entry, 
including whether the molasses meets each statutory requirement without 
the use of additives or blending, relevant definitional explanatory 
notes, and each property typical of molasses in the United States as 
directed in Senate Report 118-193: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That at the election of a processor 
eligible for a loan under section 156 of the Federal Agriculture 
Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7272) or a cooperative 
processor of dairy, the Secretary shall make payments for losses in 2023 
and 2024 to such processors (to be paid to producers, as determined by 
such processors) in lieu of payments to producers and under the same 
terms and conditions as payments made to processors pursuant to title I 
of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 
2019 (Public Law 116-20) under the heading ``Department of Agriculture--
Agricultural Programs--Processing, Research and Marketing--Office of the 
Secretary'', as last amended by section 791(c) of title VII of division 
B of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-
94): Provided further, That notwithstanding section 760.1503(j) of title 
7, Code of Federal Regulations, in the event that a processor described 
in the preceding proviso does not elect to receive payments under such 
clause, the Secretary shall make direct payments to producers under this 
heading in this Act: Provided further, <<NOTE: Determinations.>> That 
the total amount of payments received under this paragraph under this 
heading in this Act for producers who did not obtain a policy or plan of 
insurance for an insurable commodity for the applicable crop year under 
the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop 
incurring the losses or did not file the required paperwork and pay the 
service fee by the applicable State filing deadline for a noninsurable 
commodity for the applicable crop year under Noninsured Crop Disaster 
Assistance Program for the crop incurring the losses shall not exceed 70 
percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary, except the Secretary 
shall provide payments not to exceed 90 percent of the producer's 
revenue losses as determined by the Secretary if the Secretary 
determines a de minimis amount of a producer's revenue loss is 
attributable to crops for which the producer did not insure or obtain 
Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program coverage: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amount provided in this 
paragraph under this heading in this Act shall be subject to the terms 
and conditions set forth in the first, second, sixth, seventh, eighth, 
ninth, tenth, and 12th provisos under this heading in title I of the 
Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 (division B of 
Public Law 117-43), except that such ninth proviso under such heading 
shall be applied by substituting ``2023 and 2024'' for ``2020 and 2021'' 
and the Secretary shall apply a separate payment limit for economic 
assistance payments: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability. Reports.>> That not later than 120 days 
after the enactment

[[Page 138 STAT. 1728]]

of this Act, and for each fiscal quarter thereafter until the amounts 
provided under this heading in this Act are expended, the Secretary 
shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on the implementation of any programs 
provided for under this heading in this Act specifying the type, amount, 
and method of such assistance by State and territory: Provided further, 
That of the amounts provided in this paragraph, $10,000,000,000 shall be 
made available for the Secretary to make economic assistance available 
pursuant to section 2102 of this title in this Act: Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    For an additional amount for ``Office of the Secretary'', 
$220,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Secretary to 
provide assistance in the form of block grants to eligible States to 
provide compensation to producers for necessary expenses related to 
crop, timber, and livestock losses, including on-farm infrastructure, as 
a consequence of any weather event in 2023 or 2024 that a State, in its 
sole discretion, determines warrants such relief: Provided, That 
eligible States are those States with a net farm income for 2023 of less 
than $250,000,000, as recorded in the data in the Economic Research 
Service publication ``Farm Income and Wealth Statistics'' as of December 
3, 2024, and fewer than eight thousand farms and an average farm size of 
fewer than one thousand acres per farm, as recorded in the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service publication ``Farms and Land in Farms 
2023 Summary (February, 2024)'': Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall work with eligible States on any necessary terms and conditions of 
the block grants, fully taking in account the needs of each State: 
Provided further, That any such terms and conditions may not impose 
additional costs on producers: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1729]]

                       Office of Inspector General

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$7,500,000, to remain available until expended, for audits, 
investigations, and other oversight of projects and activities carried 
out with funds made available to the Department of Agriculture in this 
Act: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Agricultural Research Service

                        buildings and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Buildings and Facilities'', 
$42,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

                           Farm Service Agency

                  emergency forest restoration program

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Forest Restoration 
Program'', $356,535,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Conservation Program'', 
$828,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                 emergency watershed protection program

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Watershed Protection 
Program'' for necessary expenses for the Emergency Watershed Protection 
Program, $920,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1730]]

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

               Rural Development Disaster Assistance Fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Rural Development Disaster 
Assistance Fund'' as authorized under section 6945 of title 7, United 
States Code, as amended by this Act, $362,500,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That section 6945(b) 
of title 7, United States Code, shall apply to amounts provided under 
this heading in this Act: Provided further, That amounts provided under 
this heading in this Act may not be transferred pursuant to section 2257 
of title 7, United States Code:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                      commodity assistance program

    For an additional amount for ``Commodity Assistance Program'' for 
the emergency food assistance program as authorized by section 27(a) of 
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)) and section 
204(a)(1) of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 
7508(a)(1)), $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026: 
Provided, That such funds shall be for infrastructure needs related to 
the consequences of a major disaster declaration pursuant to the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.) in calendar years 2023 and 2024: Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2101.  Section 10101 of the Disaster Relief and Recovery 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (division B of Public Law 110-329; 
7 U.S.C. 6945) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                          (i) by striking ``for authorized activities'' 
                      and inserting ``, in the form of loans, grants, 
                      loan guarantees, or cooperative agreements, for 
                      any authorized activity'';
                          (ii) by striking ``or'' between ``President'' 
                      and ``the Secretary of Agriculture'' and inserting 
                      a comma; and
                          (iii) by inserting after ``the Secretary of 
                      Agriculture'' the following: ``, or the Governor 
                      of a State or Territory'';
                    (B) in the second sentence, inserting after ``to 
                carry out the activity'', the following: ``, but shall 
                not be limited to the original form of assistance, if 
                any''; and
                    (C) by inserting after the first sentence, as so 
                amended, the following: ``The cost of such direct and 
                guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying loans, 
                shall be as

[[Page 138 STAT. 1731]]

                defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
                of 1974.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), to read as follows--

    ``(c) Waiver of Activity or Project Limitations.--For any activity 
or project for which amounts in the Rural Development Disaster 
Assistance Fund will be obligated under subsection (b)--
            ``(1) the Secretary of Agriculture may waive any limits on 
        population, income, age, and duplication with respect to 
        replacement of damaged or destroyed utilities, or cost-sharing 
        otherwise applicable, except that, if the amounts proposed to be 
        obligated in connection with the disaster would exceed the 
        amount specified in subsection (h), the notification required by 
        that subsection shall include information and justification with 
        regard to any waivers to be granted under this subsection;
            ``(2) the Secretary of Agriculture may use alternative 
        sources of income data provided by local, regional, State, or 
        Federal government sources to determine program eligibility; and
            ``(3) with respect to grants authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
        1926(a)(19), the Secretary of Agriculture shall not require the 
        applicant to demonstrate that it is unable to finance the 
        proposed project from its own resources, or through commercial 
        credit at reasonable rates and terms, or other funding sources 
        without grant assistance.''.
            (3) Amounts provided by this section are designated by the 
        Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
        section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
        Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 2102. <<NOTE: Time 
periods. Determinations. Deadline. Payment.>> (a)(1) With respect to the 
2024 crop year, if the Secretary determines that the expected gross 
return per acre for an eligible commodity determined under paragraph (2) 
is less than the expected cost of production per acre for that eligible 
commodity determined under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall, not later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, make a 1-time 
economic assistance payment to each producer of that eligible commodity 
during that crop year.
            (2) The expected gross return per acre for an eligible 
        commodity referred to in paragraph (1) shall be equal to--
                    (A) in the case of wheat, corn, grain sorghum, 
                barley, oats, cotton, rice, and soybeans, the product 
                obtained by multiplying--
                          (i) the projected average farm price for the 
                      applicable eligible commodity for the 2024-2025 
                      marketing year contained in the most recent World 
                      Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates published 
                      before the date of enactment of this Act by the 
                      World Agricultural Outlook Board; and
                          (ii) the national average harvested yield per 
                      acre for the applicable eligible commodity for the 
                      most recent 10 crop years, as determined by the 
                      Secretary; and
                    (B) in the case of each eligible commodity not 
                specified in subparagraph (A), a comparable estimate of 
                gross returns, as determined by the Secretary.
            (3) The expected cost of production per acre for an eligible 
        commodity referred to in paragraph (1) shall be equal to--

[[Page 138 STAT. 1732]]

                    (A) in the case of wheat, corn, grain sorghum, 
                barley, oats, cotton, rice, and soybeans, the total 
                costs listed for the 2024 crop year with respect to the 
                applicable eligible commodity contained in the most 
                recent data product entitled ``national average cost-of-
                production forecasts for major U.S. field crops'' 
                published by the Economic Research Service; and
                    (B) in the case of each eligible commodity not 
                specified in subparagraph (A), a comparable total 
                estimated cost-of-production, as determined by the 
                Secretary.
            (4)(A) The amount of an economic assistance payment to a 
        producer for an eligible commodity under paragraph (1) shall be 
        equal to 26 percent of the product obtained by multiplying--
                          (i) the economic loss for that eligible 
                      commodity determined under subparagraph (B); and
                          (ii) the eligible acres of that eligible 
                      commodity on the farm determined under 
                      subparagraph (C).
                    (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), the 
                economic loss for an eligible commodity shall be equal 
                to the difference between--
                          (i) the expected cost of production per acre 
                      for that eligible commodity, as determined under 
                      paragraph (3); and
                          (ii) the expected gross return per acre for 
                      that eligible commodity, as determined under 
                      paragraph (2).
                    (C) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
                eligible acres of an eligible commodity on a farm shall 
                be equal to the sum obtained by adding--
                          (i) the acreage planted on the farm to that 
                      eligible commodity for harvest, grazing, haying, 
                      silage, or other similar purposes for the 2024 
                      crop year; and
                          (ii) an amount equal to 50 percent of the 
                      acreage on the farm that was prevented from being 
                      planted during the 2024 crop year to that eligible 
                      commodity because of drought, flood, or other 
                      natural disaster, or other condition beyond the 
                      control of the producers on the farm, as 
                      determined by the Secretary.
                    (D) For purposes of subparagraph (C)(i), the 
                Secretary shall consider acreage planted to include any 
                land devoted to planted acres for accepted skip-row 
                planting patterns, as determined by the Secretary.
                    (E) If the Secretary determines there is 
                insufficient data to determine the comparable estimate 
                of gross returns with respect to an eligible commodity 
                under paragraph (2)(B) or a comparable total estimated 
                cost-of-production with respect to an eligible commodity 
                under paragraph (3)(B), the Secretary shall use data 
                related to a similarly situated commodity for purposes 
                of determining the payment amount under this paragraph.
            (5) In no case shall the amount of an economic assistance 
        payment to a producer for an eligible commodity under paragraph 
        (1) be equal to less than the product obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) 8 percent of the reference price for the 
                eligible commodity described in section 1111(19) of the 
                Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9011(19));

[[Page 138 STAT. 1733]]

                    (B) the national average payment yield for the 
                eligible commodity described in section 1111(15) of that 
                Act (7 U.S.C. 9011(15)); and
                    (C) the number of eligible acres for the eligible 
                commodity described in paragraph (4)(C).

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
sections 1001, 1001A, 1001B, and 1001C of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(7 U.S.C. 1308, 1308-1, 1308-2, 1308-3) shall apply with respect to 
assistance provided under this section.
            (2) The total amount of payments received, directly or 
        indirectly, by a person or legal entity (except a joint venture 
        or general partnership) under this section may not exceed--
                    (A) $125,000, if less than 75 percent of the average 
                gross income of the person or legal entity for the 2020, 
                2021, and 2022 tax years is derived from farming, 
                ranching, or silviculture activities; and
                    (B) $250,000, if not less than 75 percent of the 
                average gross income of the person or legal entity for 
                the 2020, 2021, and 2022 tax years is derived from 
                farming, ranching, or silviculture activities.
            (3) The payment limitations under paragraph (2) shall be 
        separate from annual payment limitations under any other 
        program.

    (c) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  In this section:
            (1) The terms ``extra-long staple cotton'' and ``producer'' 
        have the meanings given those terms in section 1111 of the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9011).
            (2) The term ``cotton'' means extra-long staple cotton and 
        upland cotton.
            (3)(A) The term ``eligible commodity'' means a loan 
        commodity (as defined in section 1201(a) of the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9031(a)).
                    (B) The term ``eligible commodity'' does not include 
                graded wool, nongraded wool, mohair, or honey.
            (4) The terms ``legal entity'' and ``person'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 1001(a) of the Food 
        Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(a)).
            (5) The term ``rice'' means long grain rice and medium grain 
        rice.
            (6) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

    (d) Amounts provided by this section are designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1734]]

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development Assistance 
Programs'', $1,510,000,000, to remain available until expended, pursuant 
to sections 209 and 703 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act 
(42 U.S.C. 3149 and 3233), for economic adjustment assistance related to 
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term recovery, and restoration 
of infrastructure in areas that received a major disaster designation as 
a result of hurricanes, wildfires, severe storms and flooding, 
tornadoes, and other natural disasters occurring in calendar years 2023 
and 2024 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That within the 
amount appropriated under this heading in this Act, up to 3 percent of 
funds may be transferred to ``Salaries and Expenses'' for administration 
and oversight activities: Provided further, That within the amount 
appropriated under this heading in this Act, $10,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.): 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Delta 
Regional Authority shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate 15 days prior to the obligation 
of the amounts made available under the preceding proviso: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Compensation.>> That the Secretary of Commerce is 
authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such temporary 
personnel as may be necessary to implement the requirements under this 
heading in this Act, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service: Provided 
further, That within the amount appropriated under this heading in this 
Act, $7,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Departmental Management--
Office of Inspector General'' for carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the funding provided under this heading in this Act: Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
hurricanes, typhoons, flooding, wildfires, and other disasters in 
calendar years 2023 and 2024, $244,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, as follows:
            (1) $144,000,000 for repair and replacement of observing 
        assets, real property, and equipment; for marine debris 
        assessment and removal; and for mapping, charting, and geodesy 
        services; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1735]]

            (2) $100,000,000 for necessary expenses related to the 
        consequences of tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, flooding, and 
        wildfires in calendar year 2024;

 Provided, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>> That the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Acquisition and 
Construction'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, volcanoes, and other disasters in 
calendar years 2022, 2023 and 2024, $499,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, as follows:
            (1) $100,000,000 for repair and replacement of observing 
        assets, real property, and equipment; and
            (2) $399,000,000 for the acquisition of hurricane hunter 
        aircraft and related expenses as authorized under section 11708 
        of division K of Public Law 117-263:

 Provided, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>> That the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      fisheries disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Fisheries Disaster Assistance'' for 
necessary expenses associated with fishery resource disaster relief as 
authorized by law, $300,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Evaluation.>> That notwithstanding section 
312(a)(3)(A) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
Act (18 U.S.C. 1861a(a)(3)(A)), any request for a fishery resource 
disaster determination in Tribal salmon and urchin fisheries received by 
the Secretary prior to September 30, 2025, may be evaluated by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That a portion of the amounts provided 
under this heading in this Act shall be used to provide additional 
assistance up to the historical percentage for positively determined 
disasters announced in calendar year 2024 that were partially funded: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1736]]

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     United States Marshals Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $12,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2027, for necessary expenses 
related to the protection of the residences of the Supreme Court 
Justices: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          Federal Prison System

                        buildings and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Buildings and Facilities'', 
$64,795,500, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of major disasters: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                 SCIENCE

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

        construction and environmental compliance and restoration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Construction and Environmental 
Compliance and Restoration'' for repair and replacement of National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration facilities damaged by hurricanes, 
tropical storms, typhoons, and tornadoes in calendar years 2023 and 
2024, $740,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
up to 20 percent of such amount may be transferred to ``Space 
Operations'' for necessary expenses related to communications facilities 
and equipment, required remediation, and alternative operations caused 
by Typhoon Mawar: Provided further, That except as provided in the 
preceding proviso, the amounts appropriated under this heading in this 
Act shall not be available for transfer under any transfer authority 
provided for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in an 
appropriation Act for fiscal year 2025: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>> That the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1737]]

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$451,894,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of severe storms, 
straight-line winds, tornadoes, microbursts, and hurricanes in calendar 
years 2023 and 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$1,454,153,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Ian, 
Nicole, Idalia, Helene, and Milton, Typhoon Mawar, and severe storms in 
calendar year 2023: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $8,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and 
Milton: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $912,778,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and 
Milton and Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1738]]

                 Operation and Maintenance, Space Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Space 
Force'', $90,230,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and 
Milton and Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,208,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and 
Milton: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $19,594,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene 
and Milton and microbursts in calendar year 2024: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $1,319,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and 
Milton and Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $26,065,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Helene and Milton, Typhoon Mawar, and severe storms in calendar years 
2023 and 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $2,209,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane 
Helene and Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency

[[Page 138 STAT. 1739]]

requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$125,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Helene: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$129,722,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon Mawar: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Procurement, Space Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Space Force'', 
$37,994,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $41,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of severe 
storms and wave overwash: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $69,278,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, for necessary expenses related to the consequences 
of Typhoon Mawar: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1740]]

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$17,362,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene and Milton: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE IV

                        CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                             investigations

    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'', $20,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
completion, or initiation and completion, of flood and storm damage 
reduction, including shore protection, studies that are currently 
authorized, to reduce risks from future floods and hurricanes, at full 
Federal expense: Provided, That amounts made available under this 
heading in this Act shall be for high-priority studies of projects in 
States and insular areas with a major disaster, including for glacial 
lake outbursts, in calendar year 2022, 2023, or 2024: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Work plan. List. Costs. Schedule.>> That not 
later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act and not less 
than three business days prior to public release, the Chief of Engineers 
shall submit directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed work plan for the funds 
provided under this heading in this Act, including a list of study 
locations, new studies selected to be initiated, the total cost for each 
study selected for funding, the remaining cost for each ongoing study 
selected for funding, and a schedule by fiscal year of the proposed use 
of such funds: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army shall 
not deviate from the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to such 
Committees: Provided further, That funds included in a submitted work 
plan shall be deemed allocated to specific projects and subject to the 
reprogramming requirements specified in section 101(6) of the Energy and 
Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024: 
Provided further, That beginning <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>> not 
later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act and until all 
amounts provided under this heading in this Act have been expended, the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a 
quarterly report directly to such Committees detailing the allocation, 
obligation, and expenditure of the funds provided under this heading in 
this Act: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1741]]

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $700,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses to address 
emergency situations at Corps of Engineers projects, construct Corps of 
Engineers projects, and rehabilitate and repair damages caused by 
natural disasters to Corps of Engineers projects: Provided, That of the 
amount provided under this heading in this Act, $100,000,000 shall be 
used for continuing authorities projects to reduce the risk of flooding 
and storm damage, notwithstanding project number or program cost 
limitations: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading in this Act, $300,000,000 shall be to complete, or initiate and 
complete, without regard to new start or new investment decision 
considerations, a useful increment of work for water-related 
environmental infrastructure assistance in States and insular areas that 
were impacted by disasters occurring in or prior to calendar year 2024: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided under this heading in this 
Act, $300,000,000 shall be for projects that have previously received 
funds under this heading in chapter 4 of title X of the Disaster Relief 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (division A of Public Law 113-2), title IV of 
division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123), or 
title IV of the Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 
(division B of Public Law 117-43), and for which non-Federal interests 
have entered into binding agreements with the Secretary as of the date 
of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That each project receiving 
funds pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be subject to the terms 
and conditions of such chapter 4 of title X of the Disaster Relief 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (division A of Public Law 113-2), title IV of 
division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123), or 
title IV of the Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 
(division B of Public Law 117-43), and as specifically modified by 
section 111 of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2024 (division D of Public Law 118-42), as 
applicable: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading in this Act, such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal 
share of eligible construction costs for coastal harbors and channels, 
and for inland harbors eligible to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund under section 101 or section 104 of the Water 
Resources and Development Act of 2020 shall be derived from the general 
fund of the Treasury: Provided further, That for projects receiving 
funding under this heading in this Act, the limitation concerning total 
project costs in section 902 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1986 (Public Law 99-662) shall not apply to funds provided under this 
heading in this Act: Provided further, That for <<NOTE: Time 
period.>> any projects using funding provided under this heading in this 
Act, the non-Federal cash contribution for projects shall be financed in 
accordance with the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law 99-662 
over a period of 30 years from the date of completion of the project, 
separable element, or useful increment: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  any projects initiated using funds provided 
under this heading in this Act shall be initiated only after non-Federal 
interests have entered into binding agreements with the Secretary 
requiring, where applicable, the non-Federal interests to pay 100 
percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and 
rehabilitation costs of the project and to hold and save

[[Page 138 STAT. 1742]]

the United States free from damages due to the construction or operation 
and maintenance of the project, except for damages due to the fault or 
negligence of the United States or its contractors: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Work plan. Project costs. Schedule. List.>>  
That not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act and 
not less than three business days prior to public release, the Chief of 
Engineers shall submit directly to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed work plan for the 
funds provided under this heading in this Act, including a list of 
project locations, the total cost for all projects, and a schedule by 
fiscal year of proposed use of such funds: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall not deviate from the work plan, once the plan has been 
submitted to such Committees: Provided further, That funds included in a 
submitted work plan shall be deemed allocated to specific projects and 
subject to the reprogramming requirements specified in section 101(7) of 
the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2024: Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>>  That 
beginning not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act 
and until all amounts provided under this heading in this Act have been 
expended, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall 
provide a quarterly report directly to such Committees detailing the 
allocation, obligation, and expenditure of the funds provided under this 
heading in this Act: Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'', 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
to address emergency situations at Corps of Engineers projects, and to 
construct, and rehabilitate and repair damages to Corps of Engineers 
projects, caused by natural disasters: Provided, <<NOTE: Time 
period. Reports.>> That beginning not later than 60 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act and until all amounts provided under this 
heading in this Act have been expended, the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army for Civil Works shall provide a quarterly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation, obligation, and expenditure of the 
funds provided under this heading in this Act: Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), $745,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other natural 
disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters, as authorized by law: 
Provided, That funding provided under this heading in this Act utilized 
to repair authorized shore protection projects shall restore such 
projects to their full project profile at full Federal expense: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>> That beginning not later than 
60 days

[[Page 138 STAT. 1743]]

after the date of enactment of this Act and until all amounts provided 
under this heading in this Act have been expended, the Chief of 
Engineers shall provide a quarterly report directly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the allocation, obligation, and expenditure of the funds provided under 
this heading in this Act: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'', 
$74,464,000, to remain available until expended, of which $27,930,000 
shall be for necessary expenses related to the consequences of natural 
disasters that occurring in or prior to calendar year 2024: Provided, 
That $46,534,000 shall be available for deposit into the Aging 
Infrastructure Account established by section 9603(d)(1) of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (43 U.S.C. 510b(d)(1)), and shall be 
made available for reserved or transferred works that have suffered a 
critical failure, in accordance with section 40901(2)(A) of division D 
of Public Law 117-58: Provided further, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                       Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Strategic Petroleum Reserve'', 
$60,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to damages caused by natural disasters: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Activities'', $1,884,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to 
damages caused by Hurricanes Helene and Milton: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1744]]

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                      Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Environmental Cleanup'', 
$2,415,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to damages caused by Hurricanes Helene and Milton: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                 TITLE V

                              THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $13,597,000, 
to remain available until expended, for protection of the residences of 
the Supreme Court Justices: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                      Small Business Administration

                     disaster loans program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Loans Program Account'' for 
the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, $2,249,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $50,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Small Business 
Administration--Office of Inspector General'' for audits and reviews of 
disaster loans and the disaster loans programs, and of which 
$613,000,000 may be transferred to ``Small Business Administration--
Salaries and Expenses'' for administrative expenses to carry out the 
disaster loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business 
Act: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1745]]

                                TITLE VI

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

                               Coast Guard

                         operations and support

    For an additional amount for ``Operations and Support'', 
$102,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of the Francis Scott Key 
Bridge collapse and other disasters, including for minor repairs, 
maintenance, and environmental remediation costs: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Time period. Updates.>>  That the 
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate an 
expenditure plan and quarterly updates for the expenditure of such 
funds: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $210,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2029, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of disasters: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Time period. Updates.>>  That the 
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate an 
expenditure plan and quarterly updates for the expenditure of such 
funds: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                          disaster relief fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief Fund'', 
$29,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$28,000,000,000 shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That $4,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Office of Inspector General--Operations and Support'' for audits and 
investigations funded under ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--
Disaster Relief Fund'':  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1746]]

            hermit's peak/calf canyon fire assistance account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire 
Assistance Account'', $1,500,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That $1,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Office of 
Inspector General--Operations and Support'' for oversight of activities 
authorized by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire Assistance Act: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the amounts provided under 
this heading in this Act shall be subject to the reporting requirement 
in the third proviso of section 136 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2023 (division A of Public Law 117-180): Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this heading in this Act shall be subject to the 
same authorities and conditions as if such amounts were provided by 
title III of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
2024 (division C of Public Law 118-47): Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING, AND SERVICES

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $14,020,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2029, for necessary expenses relating to the consequences of disasters: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE VII

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For an additional amount for ``Management of Lands and Resources'', 
$58,115,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of natural disasters occurring in and prior 
to calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                 United States Fish And Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related

[[Page 138 STAT. 1747]]

to the consequences of natural disasters occurring in and prior to 
calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                          National Park Service

                       historic preservation fund

    For an additional amount for ``Historic Preservation Fund'', 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of natural disasters occurring in and prior 
to calendar year 2024, including costs to States, Tribes, and 
territories necessary to complete compliance activities required by 
section 306108 of title 54, United States Code, and costs needed to 
administer the program: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
heading in this Act shall be used for historic and cultural resource 
preservation work that meets the Secretary of the Interior's Standards 
and Guidelines as published in the Federal Register (Vol. 48, No. 190, 
September 29, 1983), to include Reconstruction of National Register 
listed or eligible sites: Provided further, That grants using funds 
appropriated under this heading in this Act shall only be available for 
areas that have received a major disaster declaration pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided further, That such grants shall not be 
subject to a non-Federal matching requirement: Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $2,262,871,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of disasters, including hurricanes, tropical storms, 
tornadoes, and other severe storms, wildfire, fire, and flooding 
occurring in and prior to calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'', $2,743,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of natural disasters 
occurring in and prior to calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1748]]

                             Indian Affairs

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$17,765,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of natural disasters occurring in and prior 
to calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                       Bureau of Indian Education

                         education construction

    For an additional amount for ``Education Construction'', 
$153,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of natural disasters occurring in and prior 
to calendar year 2024: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $8,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for oversight of the Department of 
the Interior activities funded by this Act: Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

           Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For an additional amount for ``Leaking Underground Storage Tank 
Trust Fund Program'', $17,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Helene 
and Hilary: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$3,000,000,000 to remain available until expended, of which 
$1,230,000,000 shall be for capitalization grants for the Clean Water 
State Revolving Funds under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act, and of which $1,770,000,000 shall be for capitalization 
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 604(a) of the Federal

[[Page 138 STAT. 1749]]

Water Pollution Control Act and section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act, funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act 
shall be provided to States or territories in EPA Regions 3, 4, and 9 in 
amounts determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for wastewater treatment works and drinking water facilities 
impacted by Hurricanes Helene and Milton and Hawaii wildfires: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the requirements of section 603(i) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act, for the funds appropriated under this paragraph in 
this Act, each State shall use not less than 30 percent of the amount of 
its capitalization grants to provide additional subsidization to 
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, negative 
interest loans or grants, or any combination of these: Provided further, 
That the funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act shall be 
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to reduce flood or fire 
damage risk and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to rapid 
hydrologic change or natural disaster at treatment works, as defined by 
section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or any eligible 
facilities under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for 
other eligible tasks at such treatment works or facilities necessary to 
further such purposes: Provided further, That the funds provided under 
this paragraph in this Act shall not be subject to the matching or cost 
share requirements of section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: 
Provided further, That funds provided under this paragraph in this Act 
shall not be subject to the matching or cost share requirements of 
sections 602(b)(2), 602(b)(3), or 202 of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act: Provided further, That the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency may retain up to $5,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this paragraph in this Act for management and 
oversight: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$85,000,000, to remain available until expended, for capitalization 
grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  notwithstanding section 604(a) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds appropriated under this 
paragraph in this Act shall be provided to States or territories in EPA 
Regions 3 and 4 impacted by Hurricanes Helene and Milton in amounts 
determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
to improve the resilience of decentralized wastewater treatment systems 
to flooding, to assess the potential to connect homes served by 
decentralized wastewater treatment systems to centralized wastewater 
systems, and to fund such connections: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 603(i) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, for the funds appropriated under this paragraph 
in this Act, each State shall use 100 percent of the amount of its 
capitalization grants to provide additional subsidization to eligible 
recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, grants, negative 
interest loans, other loan forgiveness, and through buying, refinancing, 
or restructuring debt or any combination thereof: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act shall not be subject 
to the matching

[[Page 138 STAT. 1750]]

or cost share requirements of sections 602(b)(2), 602(b)(3), or 202 of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act: Provided further, That the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may retain up to 
$3,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act 
for management and oversight: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$60,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
to address water emergencies under section 1442(b) of the Safe Drinking 
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-1(b)) or section 504(a) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1364) in States or territories in EPA 
Regions 3 and 4 impacted by Hurricanes Helene and Milton: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 1442(b) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, funds 
appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may be used to provide 
technical assistance and grants regardless of whether the emergency 
situation presents a substantial danger to public health: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 1442(b) of the Safe Drinking Water 
Act, funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may be used to 
provide grants regardless of whether such grants will be used to support 
actions that would not otherwise be taken without emergency assistance: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph in this Act may be used to provide technical assistance 
and grants under section 1442(b) of the Safe Drinking Water Act to any 
appropriate recipient, as determined by the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, to assist in responding to and 
alleviating an emergency situation affecting a privately owned water 
system: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this paragraph 
in this Act may be used to take actions authorized under section 504(a) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act that the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency deems necessary to protect the health or 
welfare of persons affected by a water emergency, including other 
necessary actions and for providing technical assistance and grants to 
address such water emergency: Provided further, That the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act for management 
and oversight: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for grants and other 
activities authorized by subsections (a) through (c) of section 103 of 
the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) or section 105 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
7405) for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Milton and Helene, including repair or replacement of damaged air 
monitoring equipment: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
paragraph in this Act may be awarded noncompetitively: Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$95,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the

[[Page 138 STAT. 1751]]

hazardous waste financial assistance grants program and other solid 
waste management activities for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Helene and Milton: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act shall be subject to 
section 3011(b) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act: Provided further, That 
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may retain up 
to $500,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act 
for management and oversight: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        forest service operations

     For an additional amount for ``Forest Service Operations'', 
$68,100,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2022, 2023, and 2024 
wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      forest and rangeland research

     For an additional amount for ``Forest and Rangeland Research'', 
$26,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of calendar year 2022, 2023, and 2024 
wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   state, private, and tribal forestry

    For an additional amount for ``State, Private, and Tribal 
Forestry'', $208,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 2022, 
2023, and 2024 wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters: 
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading in this 
Act, $14,000,000 shall be to provide Forest Health Protection assistance 
to States for an emerging eastern spruce budworm outbreak approaching 
the northeastern U.S. border: Provided further, That with respect to the 
preceding proviso, an award of financial assistance from the Forest 
Service will not be subject to a non-Federal cost-share requirement: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'', 
$2,523,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That

[[Page 138 STAT. 1752]]

of the amounts made available under this heading in this Act, 
$2,448,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of calendar year 2022, 2023, and 2024 wildfires, 
hurricanes, and other natural disasters: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act, $75,000,000 shall 
be for the construction or maintenance of shaded fuel breaks in the 
Pacific Regions: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                   capital improvement and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance'', $3,525,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of calendar year 2022, 
2023, and 2024 wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2701. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1457 note.>>   Notwithstanding section 
3304 of title 5, United States Code, and without regard to the 
provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of such title 5, the Secretary 
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, may recruit and directly appoint highly 
qualified individuals into the competitive service to address critical 
hiring needs for the planning and execution of the projects and 
activities funded in this title: Provided, That such authority shall not 
apply to positions in the Excepted Service or the Senior Executive 
Service: Provided further, <<NOTE: Compliance.>>  That any action 
authorized herein shall be consistent with the merit principles of 
section 2301 of such title 5, and the Department of the Interior and the 
Department of Agriculture shall comply with the public notice 
requirements of section 3327 of such title 5: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Termination date.>> That the authority under this 
section shall terminate on September 30, 2029: Provided further, That 
amounts provided by this section are designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 2702. <<NOTE: Deadlines. Operating plan.>>  Not later than 45 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the agencies receiving 
funds appropriated by this title shall provide a detailed operating plan 
of anticipated uses of funds made available in this title by State and 
Territory, and by program, project, and activity, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided, 
That no such funds shall be obligated before the operating plans are 
provided to such Committees: Provided further, <<NOTE: Updates.>>  That 
such plans shall be updated, including obligations and expenditures to 
date, and submitted to such Committees on Appropriations every 60 days 
until all such funds are expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1753]]

                               TITLE VIII

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

    payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to States for the Child Care 
and Development Block Grant'', $250,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2026, for necessary expenses directly related to the 
consequences of major disasters and emergencies declared pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in 2023 and 2024 (referred to under this 
heading in this Act as ``covered disaster or emergency''), including 
activities authorized under section 319(a) of the Public Health Service 
Act: Provided, That <<NOTE: Allocation. Assessment.>> the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall allocate such funds to States, 
territories, and Tribes based on assessed need notwithstanding sections 
658J and 658O of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990: 
Provided further, That not to exceed 2 percent of funds appropriated in 
this paragraph may be reserved, to remain available until expended, for 
Federal administration costs: Provided further, That such funds may be 
used for alteration, renovation, construction, equipment, and other 
capital improvement costs, including for child care facilities without 
regard to section 658F(b) of such Act, and for other expenditures 
related to child care, as necessary to meet the needs of areas affected 
by a covered disaster or emergency: Provided further, That funds made 
available in this paragraph may be used without regard to section 658G 
of such Act and with amounts allocated for such purposes excluded from 
the calculation of percentages under subsection 658E(c)(3) of such Act: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Time periods.>> That notwithstanding section 
658J(c) of such Act, funds allotted to a State may be obligated by the 
State in that fiscal year or the succeeding three fiscal years: Provided 
further, That Federal interest provisions will not apply to the 
renovation or construction of privately-owned family child care homes, 
and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop parameters 
on the use of funds for family child care homes: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  That the Secretary shall not retain 
Federal interest after a period of 10 years (from the date on which the 
funds are made available to purchase or improve the property) in any 
facility renovated or constructed with funds made available in this 
paragraph: Provided further, That funds made available in this paragraph 
shall not be available for costs that are reimbursed by the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency, under a contract for insurance, or by self-
insurance: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be made available to restore amounts, 
either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred for 
such purposes, prior to the date of enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to States for the Child Care 
and Development Block Grant'', $250,000,000, to remain

[[Page 138 STAT. 1754]]

available until September 30, 2025: Provided, That amounts made 
available in this paragraph shall be available without regard to 
requirements in sections 658E(c)(3)(E) or 658G of the Child Care and 
Development Block Grant Act: Provided further, <<NOTE: Time 
periods.>> That payments made to States, territories, Indian Tribes, and 
Tribal organizations from amounts made available in this paragraph shall 
be obligated in this fiscal year or the succeeding two fiscal years: 
Provided further, That amounts made available in this paragraph shall be 
used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, State, and local 
public funds expended to provide child care services for eligible 
individuals: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2801. <<NOTE: Deadline. Operating plans.>>   Not later than 45 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the agencies receiving 
funds appropriated by this title in this Act shall provide a detailed 
operating plan of anticipated uses of funds made available in this title 
in this Act by State and territory, and by program, project, and 
activity, to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That no such funds shall be 
obligated before the operating plans are provided to such Committees: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Updates. Time period.>> That such plans shall 
be updated, including obligations to date and anticipated use of funds 
made available in this title in this Act, and submitted to such 
Committees quarterly until all such funds expire.

                                TITLE IX

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $10,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for audits and investigations 
related to Hurricanes Helene and Milton, and other disasters declared 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in calendar years 2023 and 2024: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                 TITLE X

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $1,127,281,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2029, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon 
Mawar: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Submission. Expenditure plan.>> That 
not later than 60 days after

[[Page 138 STAT. 1755]]

enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, or their designee, 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate form 1391 for each specific project and 
an expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading in this Act: 
Provided further, That such funds may be obligated or expended for 
design and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by 
law: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$487,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon Mawar: 
Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Submission. Expenditure plan.>>  not 
later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air 
Force, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate form 1391 
for each specific project and an expenditure plan for funds provided 
under this heading in this Act: Provided further, That such funds may be 
obligated or expended for design and military construction projects not 
otherwise authorized by law: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'', $21,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon Mawar and 
severe storms in calendar year 2023: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Submission. Expenditure plan.>>  not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act, the Director of the Army National 
Guard, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate form 1391 
for each specific project and an expenditure plan for funds provided 
under this heading in this Act: Provided further, That such funds may be 
obligated or expended for design and military construction projects not 
otherwise authorized by law: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $27,399,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2029, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon 
Mawar: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> That not later 
than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, or 
their designee, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate an expenditure plan for funds 
provided under this heading in this Act: Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being

[[Page 138 STAT. 1756]]

for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps'', $102,168,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2026, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Typhoon Mawar: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure 
plan.>>  That not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Navy, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate an 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading in this Act: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Services'', $19,258,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2027, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton and Helene: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     medical support and compliance

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
$330,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton and Helene: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           medical facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Facilities'', $41,660,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2029, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton and Helene and other 
Federally declared disasters occurring in 2023 and 2024: Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1757]]

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For an additional amount for ``National Cemetery Administration'' 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton 
and Helene, $693,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Departmental Administration

                      construction, major projects

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, Major Projects'', 
$4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton and Helene: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      construction, minor projects

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, Minor Projects'', 
$2,020,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Milton and Helene: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE XI

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                        International Commissions

  international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $250,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That 
funds provided under this heading in this Act shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1758]]

                                TITLE XII

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Highway Administration

emergency relief program <<NOTE: Maryland.>> 

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Relief Program'' as 
authorized under section 125 of title 23, United States Code, 
$8,086,020,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding subsection (e) of section 120 of title 23, United States 
Code, for any obligations made on or after March 26, 2024, for fiscal 
year 2024, this fiscal year, and hereafter, the Federal share for 
Emergency Relief funds made available under section 125 of such title to 
respond to damage caused by the cargo ship Dali to the Francis Scott Key 
Bridge located in Baltimore City and Baltimore and Anne Arundel 
Counties, Maryland, including reconstruction of that bridge and its 
approaches, shall be 100 percent: Provided further, That consistent with 
section 668.105(e) of title 23, Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
successor regulation), any insurance proceeds, judgments, settlements, 
penalties, fines, or other compensation for damages, including interest, 
from whatever source derived, recovered by a State, a political 
subdivision of a State, or a toll authority for repair, including 
reconstruction, of the Francis Scott Key Bridge located in Baltimore 
City and Baltimore and Anne Arundel Counties, Maryland, in response to, 
or as a result of, the damage caused by the cargo ship Dali to that 
bridge and its approaches, shall be used upon receipt to reduce 
liability on the repair, including reconstruction, of such bridge and 
its approaches from the emergency fund authorized under section 125 of 
title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That any funds recovered 
and used to reduce liability pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not 
exceed the total amount of liability on the repair, including 
reconstruction, of the Francis Scott Key Bridge located in Baltimore 
City and Baltimore and Anne Arundel Counties, Maryland, and its 
approaches, from the emergency fund authorized under section 125 of 
title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community Development Fund'', 
$12,039,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the same 
purposes and under the same terms and conditions as funds appropriated 
under such heading in title VIII of the Disaster Relief Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2022 (Public Law 117-43), except that such amounts 
shall be for major disasters that occurred in 2023 or 2024 and the 
fourth, tenth, 15th, 16th, 20th, and 21st

[[Page 138 STAT. 1759]]

provisos under such heading in such Act shall not apply: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Allocations. Federal Register, publication. Deadline.>>  
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall allocate all funds 
provided under this heading in this Act for the total estimate for unmet 
needs including additional mitigation for qualifying disasters and 
publish such allocations in the Federal Register no later than January 
15, 2025: Provided further, That the amount obligated for each 
qualifying disaster area shall be no less than the amounts specified in 
such Federal Register publication, unless such allocation is rejected by 
the grantee: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Plan. Criteria.>> a grantee 
shall submit a plan to the Secretary for approval detailing the proposed 
use of all funds, including criteria for eligibility and how the use of 
these funds will address long-term recovery and restoration of 
infrastructure and housing, economic revitalization, and mitigation in 
the most impacted and distressed areas: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  That unobligated balances remaining 
as of the date of enactment of this Act included under Treasury 
Appropriation Fund Symbol 86 X 0162 from Public Laws 108-324, 109-148, 
109-234, 110-252, 110-329, 111-212, 112-55, and 113-2 shall also be 
available for the purposes authorized under this heading in this Act 
(except that the amount for each set-aside provided herein shall not be 
exceeded), notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were 
appropriated: Provided further, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading in this Act, $45,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Management and 
Administration--Program Offices'' for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Community Planning and Development for necessary costs, 
including information technology costs, of administering and overseeing 
the obligation and expenditure of amounts made available for activities 
authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster relief, long-term 
recovery, restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic 
revitalization, and mitigation in the most impacted and distressed areas 
resulting from a major disaster in this, prior, or future Acts (``this, 
prior, or future disaster Acts''): Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading in this Act, $1,850,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--
Information Technology Fund'' for the disaster recovery data portal: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this heading 
in this Act, $7,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Department of Housing 
and Urban Development--Office of Inspector General'' for necessary costs 
of overseeing and auditing amounts made available in this, prior, or 
future disaster Acts: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act, $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for capacity building and technical assistance, including 
assistance on contracting and procurement processes, to support 
recipients of allocations from this, prior, or future disaster Acts: 
Provided further, That amounts made available under this heading in this 
Act may be used by a grantee to assist utilities as part of a disaster-
related eligible activity under section 105(a) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)): Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 4370mm-4 note.>>  That recipients of funds made 
available in this, prior, or future disaster Acts that use such funds to 
supplement other Federal assistance may adopt, without review or public 
comment, any environmental review, approval, or permit performed

[[Page 138 STAT. 1760]]

by a Federal agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the 
responsibilities of the recipient with respect to such environmental 
review, approval or permit, so long as the actions covered by the 
existing environmental review, approval, or permit and the actions 
proposed for these supplemental funds are substantially the same: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Request. Certification.>> the Secretary 
or a State may, upon receipt of a request for release of funds and 
certification, immediately approve the release of funds for any activity 
or project if the recipient has adopted an environmental review, 
approval or permit under the previous proviso or if the activity or 
project is categorically excluded from review under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), 
notwithstanding section 104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)): Provided further, That 
such amount and amounts repurposed under this heading that were 
previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                               TITLE XIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 21301.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act 
is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 21302.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 21303.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts 
shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to 
such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2025.
    Sec. 21304. <<NOTE: President. Designations.>>   Each amount 
designated in divisions A or B by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
repurposed, rescinded, or transferred, if applicable) only if the 
President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 21305.  Any amount appropriated by divisions A or B, designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this division 
shall retain such designation.
    Sec. 21306.  Budgetary Effects.--
            (1) Statutory paygo scorecards.--The budgetary effects of 
        division C and each succeeding division shall not be entered on 
        either PAYGO scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of 
        the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
            (2) Senate paygo scorecards.--The budgetary effects of 
        division C and each succeeding division shall not be entered

[[Page 138 STAT. 1761]]

        on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of section 4106 
        of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
            (3) Classification of budgetary effects.--Notwithstanding 
        Rule 3 of the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the 
        joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference 
        accompanying Conference Report 105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of 
        the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, 
        the budgetary effects of division C and each succeeding division 
        shall not be estimated--
                    (A) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
                    (B) for purposes of an allocation to the Committee 
                on Appropriations pursuant to section 302(a) of the 
                Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and
                    (C) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of 
                the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being 
                included in an appropriation Act.
            (4) <<NOTE: Effective date. Determination.>> Balances on the 
        paygo scorecards.--Effective on the date of the adjournment of 
        the second session of the 118th Congress, and for the purposes 
        of the annual report issued pursuant to section 5 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 934) after such 
        adjournment and for determining whether a sequestration order is 
        necessary under such section, the balances on the PAYGO 
        scorecards established pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5) of 
        section 4(d) of such Act shall be zero.

     This division may be cited as the ``Disaster Relief Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2025''.

     DIVISION C-- <<NOTE: Health Extensions and Other Matters Act, 
2025.>> HEALTH
SEC. 3001. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 201 note.>>  Short Title.--This division may be 
cited as the ``Health Extensions and Other Matters Act, 2025''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

Sec. 3001. Short title; table of contents.

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC HEALTH EXTENDERS

Sec. 3101. Extension for community health centers, National Health 
           Service Corps, and teaching health centers that operate GME 
           programs.
Sec. 3102. Extension of special diabetes programs.
Sec. 3103. National health security extensions.

                           TITLE II--MEDICARE

Sec. 3201. Extension of increased inpatient hospital payment adjustment 
           for certain low-volume hospitals.
Sec. 3202. Extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program.
Sec. 3203. Extension of add-on payments for ambulance services.
Sec. 3204. Extension of funding for quality measure endorsement, input, 
           and selection.
Sec. 3205. Extension of funding outreach and assistance for low-income 
           programs.
Sec. 3206. Extension of the work geographic index floor.
Sec. 3207. Extension of certain telehealth flexibilities.
Sec. 3208. Extending acute hospital care at home waiver authorities.
Sec. 3209. Extension of temporary inclusion of authorized oral antiviral 
           drugs as covered part D drugs.
Sec. 3210. Medicare improvement fund.

                        TITLE III--HUMAN SERVICES

Sec. 3301. Sexual risk avoidance education extension.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1762]]

Sec. 3302. Personal responsibility education extension.
Sec. 3303. Extension of funding for family-to-family health information 
           centers.

                           TITLE IV--MEDICAID

Sec. 3401. Eliminating certain disproportionate share hospital payment 
           cuts.

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC HEALTH EXTENDERS

SEC. 3101. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  EXTENSION FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH 
                          CENTERS, NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS, 
                          AND TEACHING HEALTH CENTERS THAT OPERATE 
                          GME PROGRAMS.

    (a) Extension for Community Health Centers.--Section 10503(b)(1) of 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-2(b)(1)) 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``, $4,000,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023'' and all that follows 
        through ``and ending on December 31, 2024; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) $4,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 
                through 2023;
                    ``(H) $526,027,397 for the period beginning on 
                October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, 
                $690,410,959 for the period beginning on November 18, 
                2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, $536,986,301 for 
                the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on 
                March 8, 2024, and $3,592,328,767 for the period 
                beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on December 31, 
                2024; and
                    ``(I) $1,050,410,959 for the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2025, and ending on March 31, 2025.''.

    (b) Extension for the National Health Service Corps.--Section 
10503(b)(2) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
254b-2(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(J) $85,068,493 for the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2025, and ending on March 31, 2025.''.

    (c) Teaching Health Centers That Operate Graduate Medical Education 
Programs.--Section 340H(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 256h(g)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``not to exceed $230,000,000'' and all that 
        follows through ``and ending on December 31, 2024,''; and
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``, not to exceed--
                    ``(A) $230,000,000, for the period of fiscal years 
                2011 through 2015;
                    ``(B) $60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 and 
                2017;
                    ``(C) $126,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 
                through 2023;
                    ``(D) $16,635,616 for the period beginning on 
                October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, 
                $21,834,247 for the period beginning on November 18, 
                2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, $16,982,192 for 
                the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on 
                March 8, 2024, and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1763]]

                $164,136,986 for the period beginning on October 1, 
                2023, and ending on December 31, 2024; and
                    ``(E) $43,150,685 for the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2025, and ending on March 31, 2025.''.

    (d) Application of Provisions.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
amendments made by this section shall be subject to the requirements 
contained in Public Law 117-328 for funds for programs authorized under 
sections 330 through 340 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
254b et seq.).
    (e) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3014(h) of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``under subparagraphs (E) 
        and (F) of section 10503(b)(1) of the Patient Protection and 
        Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-2(b)(1))'' and inserting 
        ``under section 10503(b)(1) of the Patient Protection and 
        Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-2(b)(1)) for fiscal year 
        2015 and each subsequent fiscal year (or period thereof)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and section 101(d) of 
        the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024'' and inserting 
        ``section 101(d) of division G of the Consolidated 
        Appropriations Act, 2024, and section 3101(d) of the Health 
        Extensions and Other Matters Act, 2025''.
SEC. 3102. <<NOTE: Time period.>> EXTENSION OF SPECIAL DIABETES 
                          PROGRAMS.

    (a) Extension of Special Diabetes Programs for Type I Diabetes.--
Section 330B(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-
2(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) $39,261,745 for the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2025, and ending on March 31, 2025, to remain 
                available until expended.''.

    (b) Extending Funding for Special Diabetes Programs for Indians.--
Section 330C(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-
3(c)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) $39,261,745 for the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2025, and ending on March 31, 2025, to remain 
                available until expended.''.
SEC. 3103. NATIONAL HEALTH SECURITY EXTENSIONS.

    (a) Section 319(e)(8) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
247d(e)(8)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 31, 2025''.
    (b) Section 319L(e)(1)(D) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 247d-7e(e)(1)(D)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
    (c) Section 319L-1(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
247d-7f(b)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 31, 2025''.
    (d)(1) Section 2811A(g) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10b(g)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 31, 2025''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1764]]

    (2) Section 2811B(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10c(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
    (3) Section 2811C(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10d(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
    (e) Section 2812(c)(4)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300hh-11(c)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.

                           TITLE II--MEDICARE

SEC. 3201. EXTENSION OF INCREASED INPATIENT HOSPITAL PAYMENT 
                          ADJUSTMENT FOR CERTAIN LOW-VOLUME 
                          HOSPITALS.

    (a) In General.----Section 1886(d)(12) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(12)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and inserting ``April 1, 2025'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C)(i)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by 
                striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 
                2025'';
                    (B) in subclause (III), by striking ``December 31, 
                2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''; and
                    (C) in subclause (IV), by striking ``January 1, 
                2025'' and inserting ``April 1, 2025''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''; 
                and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``December 31, 
                2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395ww note.>> Implementation.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
may implement the amendments made by this section by program instruction 
or otherwise.
SEC. 3202. EXTENSION OF THE MEDICARE-DEPENDENT HOSPITAL (MDH) 
                          PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.----Section 1886(d)(5)(G) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(5)(G)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and 
        inserting ``April 1, 2025''; and
            (2) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and 
        inserting ``April 1, 2025''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1886(b)(3)(D) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(b)(3)(D)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``January 1, 2025'' and inserting ``April 1, 2025''; and
                    (B) in clause (iv), by striking ``December 31, 
                2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
            (2) Permitting hospitals to decline reclassification.--
        Section 13501(e)(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
        1993 (42 U.S.C. 1395ww note) is amended by striking ``December 
        31, 2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1765]]

SEC. 3203. EXTENSION OF ADD-ON PAYMENTS FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES.

    Section 1834(l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(l)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12)(A), by striking ``January 1, 2025'' 
        and inserting ``April 1, 2025''; and
            (2) in paragraph (13), by striking ``January 1, 2025'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``April 1, 2025'' in each such 
        place.
SEC. 3204. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR QUALITY MEASURE ENDORSEMENT, 
                          INPUT, AND SELECTION.

    Section 1890(d)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395aaa(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``$9,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$11,030,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
                ``March 31, 2025''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
SEC. 3205. EXTENSION OF FUNDING OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-
                          INCOME PROGRAMS.

    (a) State Health Insurance Assistance Programs.--Subsection 
(a)(1)(B)(xiv) of section 119 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients 
and Providers Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 1395b-3 note) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2024, $18,750,000'' and inserting ``March 31, 
2025, $22,500,000''.
    (b) Area Agencies on Aging.--Subsection (b)(1)(B)(xiv) of such 
section 119 is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024, $18,750,000'' 
and inserting ``March 31, 2025, $22,500,000''.
    (c) Aging and Disability Resource Centers.--Subsection 
(c)(1)(B)(xiv) of such section 119 is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2024, $6,250,000'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025, $8,500,000''.
    (d) Coordination of Efforts to Inform Older Americans About Benefits 
Available Under Federal and State Programs.--Subsection (d)(2)(xiv) of 
such section 119 is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024, 
$18,750,000'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025, $22,500,000''.
SEC. 3206. EXTENSION OF THE WORK GEOGRAPHIC INDEX FLOOR.

    Section 1848(e)(1)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
4(e)(1)(E)) is amended by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and inserting 
``April 1, 2025''.
SEC. 3207. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN TELEHEALTH FLEXIBILITIES.

    (a) Removing Geographic Requirements and Expanding Originating Sites 
for Telehealth Services.--Section 1834(m) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395m(m)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(B)(iii), by striking ``ending December 
        31, 2024'' and inserting ``ending March 31, 2025''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)(C)(iii), by striking ``ending on 
        December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``ending on March 31, 2025''.

    (b) Expanding Practitioners Eligible to Furnish Telehealth 
Services.--Section 1834(m)(4)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395m(m)(4)(E)) is amended by striking ``ending on December 31, 2024'' 
and inserting ``ending on March 31, 2025''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1766]]

    (c) Extending Telehealth Services for Federally Qualified Health 
Centers and Rural Health Clinics.--Section 1834(m)(8)(A) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(8)(A)) is amended by striking ``ending 
on December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``ending on March 31, 2025''.
    (d) Delaying the In-person Requirements Under Medicare for Mental 
Health Services Furnished Through Telehealth and Telecommunications 
Technology.--
            (1) Delay in requirements for mental health services 
        furnished through telehealth.--Section 1834(m)(7)(B)(i) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(7)(B)(i)) is amended, in 
        the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking ``on or after'' 
        and all that follows through ``described in section 
        1135(g)(1)(B))'' and inserting ``on or after April 1, 2025''.
            (2) Mental health visits furnished by rural health 
        clinics.--Section 1834(y)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1395m(y)(2)) is amended by striking ``January 1, 2025'' 
        and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``April 1, 2025.''.
            (3) Mental health visits furnished by federally qualified 
        health centers.--Section 1834(o)(4)(B) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(o)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``January 
        1, 2025'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
        inserting ``April 1, 2025.''.

    (e) Allowing for the Furnishing of Audio-only Telehealth Services.--
Section 1834(m)(9) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(9)) is 
amended by striking ``ending on December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``ending on March 31, 2025''.
    (f) Extending Use of Telehealth to Conduct Face-to-face Encounter 
Prior to Recertification of Eligibility for Hospice Care.--Section 
1814(a)(7)(D)(i)(II) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395f(a)(7)(D)(i)(II)) is amended by striking ``ending on December 31, 
2024'' and inserting ``ending on March 31, 2025''.
    (g) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395m note.>> Program Instruction Authority.--The 
Secretary of Health and Human Services may implement the amendments made 
by this section through program instruction or otherwise.
SEC. 3208. EXTENDING ACUTE HOSPITAL CARE AT HOME WAIVER 
                          AUTHORITIES.

    Section 1866G(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc-
7(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 31, 2025''.
SEC. 3209. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY INCLUSION OF AUTHORIZED ORAL 
                          ANTIVIRAL DRUGS AS COVERED PART D DRUGS.

    Section 1860D-2(e)(1)(C) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395w-102(e)(1)(C)) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
SEC. 3210. MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395iii(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``$3,197,000,000'' and inserting 
``$1,251,000,000''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1767]]

                        TITLE III--HUMAN SERVICES

SEC. 3301. SEXUAL RISK AVOIDANCE EDUCATION EXTENSION.

    Section 510 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 710) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2025''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2024'' 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
SEC. 3302. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY EDUCATION EXTENSION.

    Section 513 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 713) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
                inserting ``March 31, 2025''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``December 
                31, 2024'' and inserting ``March 31, 2025''; and
            (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
        inserting ``March 31, 2025''.
SEC. 3303. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR FAMILY-TO-FAMILY HEALTH 
                          INFORMATION CENTERS.

    Section 501(c)(1)(A)(viii) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
701(c)(1)(A)(viii)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$1,500,000'' and inserting ``$3,000,000''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and inserting ``April 1, 
        2025''.

                           TITLE IV--MEDICAID

SEC. 3401. ELIMINATING CERTAIN DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE HOSPITAL 
                          PAYMENT CUTS.

     Section 1923(f)(7)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r- 
4(f)(7)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``January 1'' and inserting 
        ``April 1''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``January 1'' and inserting 
        ``April 1''.

             DIVISION D--EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

SEC. 4101. EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 7 USC 9001 note.>> Extension.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section and the amendments made by this section, notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, the authorities (including any 
        limitations on such authorities) provided by each provision of 
        the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-334; 132 
        Stat. 4490) and each provision of law amended by that Act (and 
        for mandatory programs at such funding levels) as in effect 
        (including pursuant to section 102 of division B of

[[Page 138 STAT. 1768]]

        the Further Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 
        2024 (Public Law 118-22)) on September 30, 2024, shall continue 
        and be carried out until the date specified in paragraph (2).
            (2) Date specified.--With respect to an authority described 
        in paragraph (1), the date specified in this paragraph is the 
        later of--
                    (A) September 30, 2025;
                    (B) the date specified with respect to such 
                authority in the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 
                (Public Law 115-334; 132 Stat. 4490) or a provision of 
                law amended by that Act (Public Law 115-334; 132 Stat. 
                4490); or
                    (C) the date in effect with respect to such 
                authority pursuant to section 102 of division B of the 
                Further Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions 
                Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-22)).

    (b) Discretionary Programs.--Programs carried out using the 
authorities described in subsection (a)(1) that are funded by 
discretionary appropriations (as defined in section 250(c) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
900(c))) shall be subject to the availability of appropriations.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Commodity Programs.--
            (1) In general.--The provisions of law applicable to a 
        covered commodity (as defined in section 1111 of the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9011)), a loan commodity (as 
        defined in section 1201 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 9031)), sugarcane, 
        or sugar beets for the 2024 crop year pursuant to title I of 
        that Act (7 U.S.C. 9011 et seq.), each amendment made by 
        subtitle C of title I of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 
        (Public Law 115-334; 132 Stat. 4511), and section 102 of 
        division B of the Further Continuing Appropriations and Other 
        Extensions Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-22) shall be applicable to 
        the 2025 crop year for that covered commodity, loan commodity, 
        sugarcane, or sugar beets.
            (2) Extra long staple cotton.--Section 1208(a) of the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9038 (a)) is amended by 
        striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2026''.
            (3) Extension of payment amount.--Section 1116(d) of the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9016(d)) is amended, in the 
        matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``2024'' and 
        inserting ``2025''.
            (4) Dairy.--
                    (A) Dairy margin coverage.--
                          (i) Duration.--Section 1409 of the 
                      Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9059) is 
                      amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and 
                      inserting ``December 31, 2025''.
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Applicability. 7 USC 9057 
                      note.>> Availability of premium discount.--With 
                      respect to coverage for calendar year 2025, 
                      section 1407(g) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 
                      U.S.C. 9057(g)) shall only apply to a 
                      participating dairy operation with respect to 
                      which the premium was reduced in accordance with 
                      that section (as applied to such participating 
                      dairy operation pursuant to section 
                      102(c)(2)(B)(ii) of division B of the Further 
                      Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions 
                      Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-22)) for calendar year 
                      2024.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1769]]

                    (B) Dairy forward pricing program.--Section 
                1502(e)(2) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 
                2008 (7 U.S.C. 8772(e)(2)) is amended by striking 
                ``2027'' and inserting ``2028''.
            (5) <<NOTE: 7 USC 9092 note.>>  Suspension of permanent 
        price support authorities.--The provisions of law specified in--
                    (A) subsections (a) and (b) of section 1602 of the 
                Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9092)--
                          (i) shall not be applicable to the 2025 crops 
                      of covered commodities (as defined in section 1111 
                      of that Act (7 U.S.C. 9011)), cotton, and sugar; 
                      and
                          (ii) shall not be applicable to milk through 
                      December 31, 2025; and
                    (B) section 1602(c) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 9092(c)) 
                shall not be applicable to the crops of wheat planted 
                for harvest in calendar year 2025.

    (d) Other Programs.--
            (1) Trade.--Section 302(h)(2) of the Bill Emerson 
        Humanitarian Trust Act (7 U.S.C. 1736f-1(h)(2)) is amended by 
        striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 
        2025''.
            (2) Grazinglands research laboratory.--Section 7502 of the 
        Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246; 
        122 Stat. 2019; 132 Stat. 4817) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 7502. <<NOTE: Oklahoma. Time period.>> GRAZINGLANDS 
                          RESEARCH LABORATORY.

    ``Except as otherwise specifically authorized by law and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal land and 
facilities at El Reno, Oklahoma, administered by the Secretary (as of 
the date of enactment of this Act) as the Grazinglands Research 
Laboratory, shall not at any time, in whole or in part, be declared to 
be excess or surplus Federal property under chapter 5 of subtitle I of 
title 40, United States Code, or otherwise be conveyed or transferred in 
whole or in part, for the period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act and ending on September 30, 2025.''.
            (3) Energy.--Section 9010(b) of the Farm Security and Rural 
        Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8110(b)) is amended in 
        paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A) by striking ``2024'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``2025''.

    (e) <<NOTE: 7 USC 9001 note.>> Exceptions.--
            (1) Commodities.--Subsection (a) does not apply with respect 
        to mandatory funding under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 1614(c)(4) of the Agricultural Act of 
                2014 (7 U.S.C. 9097(c)(4)).
                    (B) Section 12314(h) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
                (7 U.S.C. 2101 note; Public Law 113-79).
                    (C) Section 12315(f) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
                (7 U.S.C. 7101 note; Public Law 113-79).
                    (D) Section 12316(a) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
                (7 U.S.C. 7101 note; Public Law 113-79).
            (2) Conservation.--
                    (A) Mandatory funding.--Subsection (a) does not 
                apply with respect to mandatory funding under the 
                following provisions of law for fiscal years 2024 and 
                2025:

[[Page 138 STAT. 1770]]

                          (i) Section 1240O(b)(3) of the Food Security 
                      Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2(b)(3)).
                          (ii) Section 1240R(f)(1) of the Food Security 
                      Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-5(f)(1)).
                          (iii) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
                      1241(a)(1) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
                      U.S.C. 3841(a)(1)).
                          (iv) Section 2408(g)(1) of the Agriculture 
                      Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 8351 note).
                    (B) Limitations.--Subsection (a) does not apply with 
                respect to limitations under the following provisions of 
                law:
                          (i) Section 1240G of the Food Security Act of 
                      1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-7).
                          (ii) Section 1240L(f) of the Food Security Act 
                      of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-24(f)).
            (3) Nutrition.--Subsection (a) does not apply with respect 
        to the mandatory funding in section 203D(d)(5) of the Emergency 
        Food Assistance Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 7507(d)(5)).
            (4) Rural development.--Subsection (a) does not apply with 
        respect to the mandatory funding in section 313B(e)(2) of the 
        Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 940c-2(e)(2)).
            (5) Research.--Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to 
        mandatory funding under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 1446(b)(1) of the National Agricultural 
                Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
                U.S.C. 3222a(b)(1)).
                    (B) Section 1672E(d)(1) of the Food, Agriculture, 
                Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
                5925g(d)(1)).
                    (C) Section 7601(g)(1)(A) of the Agricultural Act of 
                2014 (7 U.S.C. 5939(g)(1)(A)).
            (6) Energy.--Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to 
        mandatory funding under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 9002(k)(1) of the Farm Security and 
                Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8102(k)(1)).
                    (B) Section 9003(g)(1)(A) of the Farm Security and 
                Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103(g)(1)(A)).
                    (C) Section 9005(g)(1) of the Farm Security and 
                Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8105(g)(1)).
            (7) Horticulture.--Subsection (a) does not apply with 
        respect to mandatory funding under the following provisions of 
        law:
                    (A) Section 7407(d)(1) of the Farm Security and 
                Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 5925c(d)(1)).
                    (B) Section 2123(c)(4) of the Organic Foods 
                Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6522(c)(4)).
                    (C) Section 10606(d)(1)(C) of the Farm Security and 
                Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 6523(d)(1)(C)).
                    (D) Section 10109(c)(1) of the Agriculture 
                Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-334).
            (8) Miscellaneous.--Subsection (a) does not apply with 
        respect to mandatory funding under the following provisions of 
        law:
                    (A) Section 209(c) of the Agricultural Marketing Act 
                of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1627a(c)).
                    (B) Section 12605(d) of the Agriculture Improvement 
                Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 7632 note).

[[Page 138 STAT. 1771]]

    (f) Reports.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Continuation.>>  In general.--Subject to 
        paragraph (2), any requirement under a provision of law 
        described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) to submit a report 
        on a recurring basis, and the final report under which was 
        required to be submitted during fiscal year 2024, shall 
        continue, and the requirement shall be carried out, on the same 
        recurring basis, until the later of the dates specified in 
        paragraph (2) of that subsection.
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Appropriations required.--If 
        discretionary appropriations (as defined in section 250(c) of 
        the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
        U.S.C. 900(c))) are required to carry out a reporting 
        requirement described in paragraph (1), the application of that 
        paragraph to that reporting requirement shall be subject to the 
        availability of appropriations.

    (g) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Effective Date.--This section and the 
amendments made by this section shall be applied and administered as if 
this section and those amendments had been enacted on September 30, 
2024.

                        DIVISION E--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 5101. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION WHISTLEBLOWER 
                          PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1(b) of Public Law 117-25 (135 Stat. 297; 
136 Stat. 2133; 136 Stat. 5984) <<NOTE: 136 Stat. 2309.>>  is amended, 
in paragraphs (3) and (4), by striking ``October 1, 2024'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``March 14, 2025''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if enacted on September 30, 2024.
SEC. 5102. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
                          UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

    Section 210G(i) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
124n(i)) is amended by striking ``December 20, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 14, 2025''.
SEC. 5103. ADDITIONAL SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.

    Section 3014 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``December 23, 2024'' and inserting ``March 14, 2025''.
SEC. 5104. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 227(a) of the Federal Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2015 
(6 U.S.C. 1525(a)) is amended by striking ``December 20, 2024'' and 
inserting ``March 14, 2025''.
SEC. 5105. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY ORDER FOR FENTANYL-RELATED 
                          SUBSTANCES. <<NOTE:   Effective date.>> 
Effective 
date.

    Effective as if included in the enactment of the Temporary 
Reauthorization and Study of the Emergency Scheduling of Fentanyl 
Analogues Act (Public Law 116-114), section 2 of such


[[Page 138 STAT. 1772]]

Act <<NOTE: 134 Stat. 103; 135 Stat. 264, 380; 136 Stat. 17, 33, 801, 
5231.>>  is amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``March 31, 2025''.

    Approved December 21, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 10545:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 170 (2024):
            Dec. 20, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>