Shown Here:
Engrossed Amendment Senate (08/01/2018)

[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6147 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                        August 1, 2018.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
6147) entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes.'', do pass with the 
following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
      following:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as ``Interior, Environment, Financial 
Services and General Government, Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2019''.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO ACT.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

SEC. 3. REFERENCES TO REPORT.

    (a) Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' contained 
in division A shall be treated as a reference to Senate Report 115-276. 
The effect of such Report shall be limited to division A and shall 
apply for purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
and the implementation of, division A.
    (b) Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' contained 
in division B shall be treated as a reference to Senate Report 115-281. 
The effect of such Report shall be limited to division B and shall 
apply for purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
and the implementation of, division B.
    (c) Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' contained 
in division C shall be treated as a reference to Senate Report 115-259. 
The effect of such Report shall be limited to division C and shall 
apply for purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
and the implementation of, division C.
    (d) Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' contained 
in division D shall be treated as a reference to Senate Report 115-268. 
The effect of such Report shall be limited to division D and shall 
apply for purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
and the implementation of, division D.

   DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

    For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
$1,196,143,000, to remain available until expended, including all such 
amounts as are collected from permit processing fees, as authorized but 
made subject to future appropriation by section 35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191), except that amounts from permit 
processing fees may be used for any bureau-related expenses associated 
with the processing of oil and gas applications for permits to drill 
and related use of authorizations:  Provided, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available to 
carry out the Colorado River Basin salinity control program.
    In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration program 
operations, including the cost of administering the mining claim fee 
program, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts 
collected by the Bureau and credited to this appropriation from mining 
claim maintenance fees and location fees that are hereby authorized for 
fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
not more than $1,196,143,000, and $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, from communication site rental fees established by the Bureau 
for the cost of administering communication site activities.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, $26,016,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                   oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein, including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$106,543,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 25 
percent of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of 
August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 
and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under 
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any provision 
to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 
1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to 
that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action:  Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available 
until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations funded 
under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and private 
entities, including with States. Appropriations for the Bureau shall be 
available for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities to which the United States has title; up to 
$100,000 for payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for 
information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by 
the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, That notwithstanding Public Law 90-620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the 
Bureau may, under cooperative cost-sharing and partnership arrangements 
authorized by law, procure printing services from cooperators in 
connection with jointly produced publications for which the cooperators 
share the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality 
standards:  Provided further, That projects to be funded pursuant to a 
written commitment by a State government to provide an identified 
amount of money in support of the project may be carried out by the 
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and 
burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors or for the sale of 
wild horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing 
into commercial products.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific and economic studies, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources, $1,292,067,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$17,818,000 shall be used for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), 
and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1533) (except for processing petitions, developing and issuing proposed 
and final regulations, and taking any other steps to implement actions 
described in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)).

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fish and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$50,413,000, to remain available until expended.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
statutory authority applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, $45,189,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated for specific land acquisition 
projects may be used to pay for any administrative overhead, planning 
or other management costs.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $49,495,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $18,695,000 is to be derived from the 
Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund; and of which 
$30,800,000 is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), 
$43,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                neotropical migratory bird conservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $3,910,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the Rhinoceros and 
Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape 
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), and the Marine 
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $12,061,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Indian tribes under the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and 
Wildlife Coordination Act, for the development and implementation of 
programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including 
species that are not hunted or fished, $65,571,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided herein, 
$4,209,000 is for a competitive grant program for Indian tribes not 
subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That $6,362,000 is for a competitive grant program to 
implement approved plans for States, territories, and other 
jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the regional 
Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to the 
remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall, after deducting $10,571,000 and administrative 
expenses, apportion the amount provided herein in the following manner: 
(1) to the District of Columbia and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
each a sum equal to not more than one-half of 1 percent thereof; and 
(2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal to not 
more than one-fourth of 1 percent thereof:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: 
(1) one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the land area of 
such State bears to the total land area of all such States; and (2) 
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which the population of 
such State bears to the total population of all such States:  Provided 
further, That the amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be 
adjusted equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum which is 
less than 1 percent of the amount available for apportionment under 
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 percent of such 
amount:  Provided further, That the Federal share of planning grants 
shall not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of such projects and the 
Federal share of implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of 
the total costs of such projects:  Provided further, That the non-
Federal share of such projects may not be derived from Federal grant 
programs:  Provided further, That any amount apportioned in 2019 to any 
State, territory, or other jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of 
September 30, 2020, shall be reapportioned, together with funds 
appropriated in 2021, in the manner provided herein.

                       administrative provisions

    The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out the 
operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public 
and private entities. Appropriations and funds available to the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service shall be available for repair of 
damage to public roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused 
by operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land at not 
to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to such public 
recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent with their 
primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Service 
and to which the United States has title, and which are used pursuant 
to law in connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
wildlife resources:  Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the 
Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly produced publications for which 
the cooperators share at least one-half the cost of printing either in 
cash or services and the Service determines the cooperator is capable 
of meeting accepted quality standards:  Provided further, That the 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, all 
fees collected for non-toxic shot review and approval shall be 
deposited under the heading ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Resource Management'' and shall be available to the Secretary, without 
further appropriation, to be used for expenses of processing of such 
non-toxic shot type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
necessary, and shall remain available until expended.

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service and for the general administration of the National Park 
Service, $2,500,369,000, of which $10,032,000 for planning and 
interagency coordination in support of Everglades restoration and 
$141,961,000 for maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
constructed assets and $149,075,000 for cyclic maintenance projects for 
constructed assets shall remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading in this Act are 
available for the purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95-348:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 9(a) of the United States 
Semiquincentennial Commission Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-196; 130 
Stat. 691), $500,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be provided to the organization selected under section 9(b) of 
that Act for expenditure by the United States Semiquincentennial 
Commission in accordance with that Act.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, and 
grant administration, not otherwise provided for, $64,138,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the National Historic 
Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States 
Code), $91,910,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund 
and to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That of 
the funds provided for the Historic Preservation Fund, $500,000 is for 
competitive grants for the survey and nomination of properties to the 
National Register of Historic Places and as National Historic Landmarks 
associated with communities currently under-represented, as determined 
by the Secretary, $13,000,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the 
sites and stories of the Civil Rights movement, $8,000,000 is for 
grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and $5,000,000 
is for competitive grants for the restoration of historic properties of 
national, State and local significance listed on or eligible for 
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places, to be made 
without imposing the usage or direct grant restrictions of section 
101(e)(3) (54 U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical Preservation 
Act:  Provided further, That such competitive grants shall be made 
without imposing the matching requirements in section 302902(b)(3) of 
title 54, United States Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined in 
chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian organizations, local 
governments, including Certified Local Governments, and non-profit 
organizations.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of physical 
facilities, and compliance and planning for programs and areas 
administered by the National Park Service, $364,704,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for any project initially funded in fiscal year 2019 
with a future phase indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line 
Item Construction Plan, a single procurement may be issued which 
includes the full scope of the project:  Provided further, That the 
solicitation and contract shall contain the clause availability of 
funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-18:  Provided further, That National Park 
Service Donations, Park Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees 
may be made available for the cost of adjustments and changes within 
the original scope of effort for projects funded by the National Park 
Service Construction appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with current reprogramming thresholds, 
prior to making any charges authorized by this section.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
the statutory authority applicable to the National Park Service, 
$174,444,000, to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
and to remain available until expended, of which $124,006,000 is for 
the State assistance program and of which $15,000,000 shall be for the 
American Battlefield Protection Program grants as authorized by chapter 
3081 of title 54, United States Code.

                          centennial challenge

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of section 
101701 of title 54, United States Code, relating to challenge cost 
share agreements, $23,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Centennial Challenge projects and programs:  Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of each project or program shall be 
derived from non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, 
or a pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to other uses set forth in section 101917(c)(2) of 
title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-account 
shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, for use at any unit within the National Park System to 
extinguish or reduce liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold 
surrender interest. Such funds may only be used for this purpose to the 
extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts 
over the term of the contract at that unit exceed the amount of funds 
used to extinguish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at the 
benefitting unit shall be credited to the sub-account of the 
originating unit over a period not to exceed the term of a single 
contract at the benefitting unit, in the amount of funds so expended to 
extinguish or reduce liability.
    For the costs of administration of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432), the National Park 
Service may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts which are authorized 
to be disbursed under such section, such retained amounts to remain 
available until expended.
    National Park Service funds may be transferred to the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of Transportation, for 
purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204. Transfers may include a 
reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) 
and related purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,148,457,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2020; of which $100,000 shall 
be made available to the United States Geological Survey Mineral 
Resources Program for the development of a map depicting pyrrhotite 
occurrences throughout the United States; of which $84,337,000 shall 
remain available until expended for satellite operations; and of which 
$15,164,000 shall be available until expended for deferred maintenance 
and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in cost:  
Provided, That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem research 
activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private property, 
unless specifically authorized in writing by the property owner:  
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be used to 
pay more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water 
resources data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation 
with States and municipalities:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading, not less than $200,000 shall be used 
for activities to better understand mechanisms that result in toxins 
being present in harmful algal blooms.

                       administrative provisions

    From within the amount appropriated for activities of the United 
States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary shall be available 
for contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations, 
observation wells, and seismic equipment; expenses of the United States 
National Committee for Geological Sciences; and payment of compensation 
and expenses of persons employed by the Survey duly appointed to 
represent the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
interstate compacts:  Provided, That activities funded by 
appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the use of 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in section 6302 
of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That the United 
States Geological Survey may enter into contracts or cooperative 
agreements directly with individuals or indirectly with institutions or 
nonprofit organizations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the 
temporary or intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
shall be considered employees for the purpose of chapters 57 and 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and 
work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, 
relating to tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal 
employees for any other purposes.

                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                        ocean energy management

    For expenses necessary for granting and administering leases, 
easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and gas, other 
minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer Continental 
Shelf and approving operations related thereto, as authorized by law; 
for environmental studies, as authorized by law; for implementing other 
laws and to the extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial 
delegation; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements, 
$179,266,000, of which $129,450,000 is to remain available until 
September 30, 2020, and of which $49,816,000 is to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That this total appropriation shall be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited to this 
appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from increases to 
lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery 
fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative activities:  
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$129,450,000:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach 
and marine cleanup activities.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

             offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations related to 
leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and 
gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing 
laws and regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided by 
Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching grants or 
cooperative agreements, $145,475,000, of which $121,351,000 is to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, and of which $24,124,000 is 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That this total 
appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary 
and credited to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and 
from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of 
Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and 
miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2019 appropriation estimated at not more than $121,351,000.
    For an additional amount, $41,765,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and 
credited to this appropriation, which shall be derived from non-
refundable inspection fees collected in fiscal year 2019, as provided 
in this Act:  Provided, That to the extent that amounts realized from 
such inspection fees exceed $41,765,000, the amounts realized in excess 
of $41,765,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, 
not less than 50 percent of the inspection fees expended by the Bureau 
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement will be used to fund personnel 
and mission-related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly 
development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the Outer 
Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the review of applications for permits 
to drill.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $12,700,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
$114,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce permits 
issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95-87 (30 
U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That fees assessed and collected by the Office pursuant to such section 
507 shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
as collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result in 
a fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$114,900,000.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, $22,952,000, to 
be derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That pursuant to Public Law 
97-365, the Department of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 
percent from the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United 
States Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts:  
Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of Public 
Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines:  Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act:  Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this heading may be used for the travel and per 
diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, $115,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants to States and federally recognized Indian Tribes for reclamation 
of abandoned mine lands and other related activities in accordance with 
the terms and conditions in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided, That such additional amount shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 
U.S.C. 1233(a)):  Provided further, That of such additional amount, 
$75,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet the 
priorities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such section, 
$30,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet 
such priorities, and $10,000,000 shall be for grants to federally 
recognized Indian Tribes without regard to their status as certified or 
uncertified under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of abandoned mine lands and 
other related activities in accordance with the terms and conditions in 
the report accompanying this Act and shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977:  
Provided further, That such additional amount shall be allocated to 
States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

        Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 
U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,403,890,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020, except as otherwise provided herein; of which not 
to exceed $8,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $76,000,000 shall be for welfare 
assistance payments:  Provided, That in cases of designated Federal 
disasters, the Secretary may exceed such cap, from the amounts provided 
herein, to provide for disaster relief to Indian communities affected 
by the disaster:  Provided further, That federally recognized Indian 
tribes and tribal organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance 
costs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $680,673,000 for school 
operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education programs 
shall become available on July 1, 2019, and shall remain available 
until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$54,174,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation support, land 
records improvement, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $81,036,000 within and only from such 
amounts made available for school operations shall be available for 
administrative cost grants associated with grants approved prior to 
July 1, 2019:  Provided further, That any forestry funds allocated to a 
federally recognized tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 
2020, may be transferred during fiscal year 2021 to an Indian forest 
land assistance account established for the benefit of the holder of 
the funds within the holder's trust fund account:  Provided further, 
That any such unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on 
September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That in order to enhance the 
safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may use funds to purchase 
uniforms or other identifying articles of clothing for personnel.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal 
year 2019, such sums as may be necessary, which shall be available for 
obligation through September 30, 2020:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no amounts made available under this 
heading shall be available for transfer to another budget account.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
facilities, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; and preparation 
of lands for farming, and for construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 87-483; $359,419,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau:  
Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams 
program pursuant to the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall 
be made available on a nonreimbursable basis:  Provided further, That 
for fiscal year 2019, in implementing new construction, replacement 
facilities construction, or facilities improvement and repair project 
grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to grant schools under 
Public Law 100-297, the Secretary of the Interior shall use the 
Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for 
Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of title 43, Code of Federal 
Regulations, as the regulatory requirements:  Provided further, That 
such grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of 
Federal Regulations; the Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and 
determine a schedule of payments for the work to be performed:  
Provided further, That in considering grant applications, the Secretary 
shall consider whether such grantee would be deficient in assuring that 
the construction projects conform to applicable building standards and 
codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
required by section 1125(b) of title XI of Public Law 95-561 (25 U.S.C. 
2005(b)), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities:  Provided further, That if the Secretary declines a grant 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 
section 5206(f) of Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)):  Provided 
further, That any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee 
concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision in 
section 5208(e) of Public Law 107-110 (25 U.S.C. 2507(e)):  Provided 
further, That in order to ensure timely completion of construction 
projects, the Secretary may assume control of a project and all funds 
related to the project, if, within 18 months of the date of enactment 
of this Act, any grantee receiving funds appropriated in this Act or in 
any prior Act, has not completed the planning and design phase of the 
project and commenced construction:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation may be reimbursed from the Office of the Special Trustee 
for American Indians appropriation for the appropriate share of 
construction costs for space expansion needed in agency offices to meet 
trust reform implementation: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Indian Irrigation Fund established by section 3211 of the WIIN Act 
(Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1749).

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements pursuant to 
Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, 111-291, and 114-322, and 
for implementation of other land and water rights settlements, 
$55,457,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary shall make payments in such amounts as necessary to satisfy 
the total authorized amount for the Navajo Nation Water Rights Trust 
Fund.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, $9,279,000, of 
which $1,252,000 is for administrative expenses, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974:  Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed or insured, not to exceed $123,565,389.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Notwithstanding Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs may contract for services in support of the management, 
operation, and maintenance of the Power Division of the San Carlos 
Irrigation Project.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office oversight and Executive 
Direction and Administrative Services (except executive direction and 
administrative services funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, 
regional offices, and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be 
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian 
Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the amounts provided herein 
for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be 
available to support the operation of any elementary or secondary 
school in the State of Alaska.
    No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall be used 
to support expanded grades for any school or dormitory beyond the grade 
structure in place or approved by the Secretary of the Interior at each 
school in the Bureau of Indian Education school system as of October 1, 
1995, except that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this 
prohibition to support expansion of up to one additional grade when the 
Secretary determines such waiver is needed to support accomplishment of 
the mission of the Bureau of Indian Education, or more than one grade 
to expand the elementary grade structure for Bureau-funded schools with 
a K-2 grade structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations made available 
in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau shall be 
available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, only to the 
schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, and to any 
school or school program that was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds 
made available under this Act may not be used to establish a charter 
school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is defined in section 
1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that 
a charter school that is in existence on the date of the enactment of 
this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-funded school before 
September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during that period, but only 
if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to 
reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and personal property 
(including buses and vans), the funds of the charter school are kept 
separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau does not assume 
any obligation for charter school programs of the State in which the 
school is located if the charter school loses such funding. Employees 
of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a charter school and 
performing functions related to the charter school's operation and 
employees of a charter school shall not be treated as Federal employees 
for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.
    Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as of 
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive this prohibition 
in order for an Indian tribe to provide language and cultural immersion 
educational programs for non-public schools located within the 
jurisdictional area of the tribal government which exclusively serve 
tribal members, do not include grades beyond those currently served at 
the existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational environment 
with educator presence and academic facilities comparable to the 
Bureau-funded school, comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or 
State health and safety standards, and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, and demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, such as 
for transportation or other impacts to students such as those caused by 
busing students extended distances:  Provided, That no funds available 
under this Act may be used to fund operations, maintenance, 
rehabilitation, construction or other facilities-related costs for such 
assets that are not owned by the Bureau:  Provided further, That the 
term ``satellite school'' means a school location physically separated 
from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 miles but that forms 
part of the existing school in all other respects.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary

                        departmental operations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by 
law, $131,673,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020; of 
which not to exceed $15,000 may be for official reception and 
representation expenses; and of which up to $1,000,000 shall be 
available for workers compensation payments and unemployment 
compensation payments associated with the orderly closure of the United 
States Bureau of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Office of 
Valuation Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended; and of 
which $9,704,000 for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation 
activities shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation activities may, as 
needed, be transferred to and merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
and Bureau of Indian Education ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account 
and the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians ``Federal 
Trust Programs'' account:  Provided further, That funds made available 
through contracts or grants obligated during fiscal year 2019, as 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 
et seq.), shall remain available until expended by the contractor or 
grantee: Provided further, That within available amounts provided under 
this heading, the Secretary of the Interior shall designate the rest 
area bound by Alexandria Avenue, West Boulevard Drive, and the George 
Washington Memorial Parkway on the Mount Vernon Trail within the George 
Washington Memorial Parkway as the ``Peter B. Webster III Memorial 
Area'' and any reference in a law, map regulation, document, paper, or 
other record of the United States to the rest area shall be deemed to 
be a reference to the ``Peter B. Webster III Memorial Area''; Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Interior shall accept and expend 
private contributions for the design, procurement, preparation, and 
installation of a plaque honoring Peter B. Webster III on the condition 
that the Director of the National Park Service shall approve the design 
and placement of the plaque: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $400,000 shall be made available to the 
commission established by section 3(a) of the Alyce Spotted Bear and 
Walter Soboleff Commission on Native Children Act (Public Law 114-244; 
130 Stat. 981).

                       administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2019, up to $400,000 of the payments authorized by 
chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may be retained for 
administrative expenses of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program:  
Provided, That the amounts provided under this Act specifically for the 
Payments in Lieu of Taxes program are the only amounts available for 
payments authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided further, That in the event the sums appropriated for any 
fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter are insufficient to 
make the full payments authorized by that chapter to all units of local 
government, then the payment to each local government shall be made 
proportionally:  Provided further, That the Secretary may make 
adjustments to payment to individual units of local government to 
correct for prior overpayments or underpayments:  Provided further, 
That no payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise 
eligible units of local government if the computed amount of the 
payment is less than $100.

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other jurisdictions 
identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188, $100,688,000, of 
which: (1) $91,240,000 shall remain available until expended for 
territorial assistance, including general technical assistance, 
maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative 
activities, and brown tree snake control and research; grants to the 
judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and expenses, as 
authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of 
American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, for construction 
and support of governmental functions; grants to the Government of the 
Virgin Islands, as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, 
as authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern 
Mariana Islands , as authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 
272); and (2) $9,448,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs:  Provided, 
That all financial transactions of the territorial and local 
governments herein provided for, including such transactions of all 
agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such governments, 
may be audited by the Government Accountability Office, at its 
discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant 
funding shall be provided according to those terms of the Agreement of 
the Special Representatives on Future United States Financial 
Assistance for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 104-
134:  Provided further, That the funds for the program of operations 
and maintenance improvement are appropriated to institutionalize 
routine operations and maintenance improvement of capital 
infrastructure with territorial participation and cost sharing to be 
determined by the Secretary based on the grantee's commitment to timely 
maintenance of its capital assets:  Provided further, That any 
appropriation for disaster assistance under this heading in this Act or 
previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds 
for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to 
section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                      compact of free association

    For grants and necessary expenses, $3,563,000, to remain available 
until expended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2) and 233 of the 
Compact of Free Association for the Republic of Palau; and section 
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association for the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of 
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may transfer 
discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided under section 104(e) of 
Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 104-134, that are allocated for Guam, 
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or 
guaranteed loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for the 
purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
for construction and repair projects in Guam, and such funds shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the population 
of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and restrictions on the 
types of eligible entities under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act:  Provided further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available to 
make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $65,674,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$52,486,000.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
$112,380,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $19,016,000 from this or any other Act, may be available for 
historical accounting:  Provided, That funds for trust management 
improvements and litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to 
or merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian 
Education, ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account; the Office of the 
Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' account; and the Office of the 
Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' account:  Provided further, That 
funds made available through contracts or grants obligated during 
fiscal year 2019, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain available until expended by 
the contractor or grantee:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be required to provide 
a quarterly statement of performance for any Indian trust account that 
has not had activity for at least 15 months and has a balance of $15 or 
less:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue an annual 
account statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and shall 
permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn upon the 
express written request of the account holder:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $50,000 is available for the Secretary to make payments 
to correct administrative errors of either disbursements from or 
deposits to Individual Indian Money or Tribal accounts after September 
30, 2002:  Provided further, That erroneous payments that are recovered 
shall be credited to and remain available in this account for this 
purpose:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall not be required to 
reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a balance of less than $500 
unless the Office of the Special Trustee receives proof of ownership 
from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund 
Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or any other 
provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust accounts of 
individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a continuous period of at 
least five years and shall not be required to generate periodic 
statements of performance for the individual accounts:  Provided 
further, That with respect to the eighth proviso, the Secretary shall 
continue to maintain sufficient records to determine the balance of the 
individual accounts, including any accrued interest and income, and 
such funds shall remain available to the individual account holders.

                        Department-wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire suppression 
operations, fire science and research, emergency rehabilitation, fuels 
management activities, and rural fire assistance by the Department of 
the Interior, $1,116,076,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $18,427,000 shall be for the renovation or 
construction of fire facilities:  Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
from which funds were previously transferred for such purposes:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided $188,000,000 is for fuels 
management activities:  Provided further, That of the funds provided 
$20,470,000 is for burned area rehabilitation:  Provided further, That 
persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence 
and lodging without cost from funds available from this appropriation:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received 
by a bureau or office of the Department of the Interior for fire 
protection rendered pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of 
United States property, may be credited to the appropriation from which 
funds were expended to provide that protection, and are available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That using the 
amounts designated under this title of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior may enter into procurement contracts, grants, or cooperative 
agreements, for fuels management activities, and for training and 
monitoring associated with such fuels management activities on Federal 
land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for activities that benefit 
resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That the costs of 
implementing any cooperative agreement between the Federal Government 
and any non-Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the 
affected parties:  Provided further, That notwithstanding requirements 
of the Competition in Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of 
fuels management activities, may obtain maximum practicable competition 
among: (1) local private, nonprofit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth 
Conservation Corps crews, Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or 
related partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; (3) 
small or micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that will hire or 
train locally a significant percentage, defined as 50 percent or more, 
of the project workforce to complete such contracts:  Provided further, 
That in implementing this section, the Secretary shall develop written 
guidance to field units to ensure accountability and consistent 
application of the authorities provided herein:  Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used to reimburse the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine 
Fisheries Service for the costs of carrying out their responsibilities 
under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to 
consult and conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in 
connection with wildland fire management activities:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior may use wildland fire appropriations 
to enter into leases of real property with local governments, at or 
below fair market value, to construct capitalized improvements for fire 
facilities on such leased properties, including but not limited to fire 
guard stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack and fire 
support facilities, and to make advance payments for any such lease or 
for construction activity associated with the lease:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may 
authorize the transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire 
management, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between 
the Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
wildland fire management programs and projects:  Provided further, That 
funds provided for wildfire suppression shall be available for support 
of Federal emergency response actions:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance to or 
through the Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall be available 
to support forestry, wildland fire management, and related natural 
resource activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, 
and cooperation with United States and international organizations.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the response action, including 
associated activities, performed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), $10,010,000, to remain available until expended.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the Department of the 
Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 54 
U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000, to remain available until expended.

                          working capital fund

    For the operation and maintenance of a departmental financial and 
business management system, information technology improvements of 
general benefit to the Department, cybersecurity, and the consolidation 
of facilities and operations throughout the Department, $56,735,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be used to establish 
reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other than for accrued 
annual leave and depreciation of equipment without prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate:  Provided further, That the Secretary may assess reasonable 
charges to State, local and tribal government employees for training 
services provided by the National Indian Program Training Center, other 
than training related to Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may lease or otherwise provide space and related facilities, 
equipment or professional services of the National Indian Program 
Training Center to State, local and tribal government employees or 
persons or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or 
recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of title 40, 
United States Code) at the prevailing rate for similar space, 
facilities, equipment, or services in the vicinity of the National 
Indian Program Training Center:  Provided further, That all funds 
received pursuant to the two preceding provisos shall be credited to 
this account, shall be available until expended, and shall be used by 
the Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian Program 
Training Center:  Provided further, That the Secretary may enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements to support the Office of Natural 
Resource Revenue's collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, and 
other mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may be obtained by 
donation, purchase or through available excess surplus property:  
Provided, That existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price 
for the replacement aircraft.

                  office of natural resources revenue

    For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds, 
and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by law, 
$137,505,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020; of which 
$41,727,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
mineral revenue management activities:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Secretary concurred with the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed to 
Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous 
payments.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

    Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes:  Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which must 
be requested as promptly as possible.

             emergency transfer authority--department-wide

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of wildland fires on or threatening 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; for the 
emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under its jurisdiction; 
for emergency actions related to potential or actual earthquakes, 
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for contingency 
planning subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and natural 
resource damage assessment activities related to actual oil spills or 
releases of hazardous substances into the environment; for the 
prevention, suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper 
and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 
106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under 
section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year 
funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of 
regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out 
the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:  Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for wildland fire operations shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection 
with their use for wildland fire operations, with such reimbursement to 
be credited to appropriations currently available at the time of 
receipt thereof:  Provided further, That for wildland fire operations, 
no funds shall be made available under this authority until the 
Secretary determines that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire 
suppression'' shall be exhausted within 30 days:  Provided further, 
That all funds used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation, which must be requested as promptly as 
possible:  Provided further, That such replenishment funds shall be 
used to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency 
funds were transferred.

                        authorized use of funds

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, when authorized by the Secretary, 
in total amount not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of 
motor vehicles, including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when authorized by 
the Secretary, for library membership in societies or associations 
which issue publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

    Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians and any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management and 
reform activities. Total funding for historical accounting activities 
shall not exceed amounts specifically designated in this Act for such 
purpose.

           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate 
tribal funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, 
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in 
Tribal Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 
2019. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas 
or inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation 
does not apply.

                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands

    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, waters, or 
interests therein including the use of all or part of any pier, dock, 
or landing within the State of New York and the State of New Jersey, 
for the purpose of operating and maintaining facilities in the support 
of transportation and accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, 
and Liberty Islands, and of other program and administrative 
activities, by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and the 
Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into leases, subleases, 
concession contracts or other agreements for the use of such facilities 
on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may determine reasonable.

                outer continental shelf inspection fees

    Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2019, the Secretary shall collect a 
nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be deposited in the 
``Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement'' account, from the 
designated operator for facilities subject to inspection under 43 
U.S.C. 1348(c).
    (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are above 
the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in place at the start 
of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall be:
            (1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
        processing equipment or gathering lines;
            (2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells; and
            (3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
        any combination of active or inactive wells.
    (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all inspections 
completed in fiscal year 2019. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall be:
            (1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of 500 feet or more; and
            (2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of less than 500 feet.
    (d) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection 
(b) within 60 days, with payment required within 30 days of billing. 
The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection (c) 
within 30 days of the end of the month in which the inspection 
occurred, with payment required within 30 days of billing.

     bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement 
                             reorganization

    Sec. 108.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement a 
reorganization of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and 
Enforcement, may transfer funds among and between the successor offices 
and bureaus affected by the reorganization only in conformance with the 
reprogramming guidelines described in the report accompanying this Act.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear cooperative 
agreements with nonprofit organizations and other appropriate entities, 
and may enter into multiyear contracts in accordance with the 
provisions of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code (except that 
the 5-year term restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply), for the 
long-term care and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses and 
burros by such organizations or entities on private land. Such 
cooperative agreements and contracts may not exceed 10 years, subject 
to renewal at the discretion of the Secretary.

                       mass marking of salmonids

    Sec. 110.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall, in 
carrying out its responsibilities to protect threatened and endangered 
species of salmon, implement a system of mass marking of salmonid 
stocks, intended for harvest, that are released from federally operated 
or federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to fish 
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked fish must have 
a visible mark that can be readily identified by commercial and 
recreational fishers.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

    Sec. 111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2019, in carrying out work involving cooperation with 
State, local, and tribal governments or any political subdivision 
thereof, Indian Affairs may record obligations against accounts 
receivable from any such entities, except that total obligations at the 
end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
available at the end of the fiscal year.

                   humane transfer of excess animals

    Sec. 112.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior may transfer excess wild horses or burros 
that have been removed from the public lands to other Federal, State, 
and local government agencies for use as work animals:  Provided, That 
the Secretary may make any such transfer immediately upon request of 
such Federal, State, or local government agency:  Provided further, 
That any excess animal transferred under this provision shall lose its 
status as a wild free-roaming horse or burro as defined in the Wild 
Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act:  Provided further, That any 
Federal, State, or local government agency receiving excess wild horses 
or burros as authorized in this section shall not: destroy the horses 
or burros in a way that results in their destruction into commercial 
products; sell or otherwise transfer the horses or burros in a way that 
results in their destruction for processing into commercial products; 
or euthanize the horses or burros except upon the recommendation of a 
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe injury, illness, or advanced 
age.

        department of the interior experienced services program

    Sec. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating 
to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, the Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with, private nonprofit organizations designated by the 
Secretary of Labor under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
utilize the talents of older Americans in programs authorized by other 
provisions of law administered by the Secretary and consistent with 
such provisions of law.
    (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement would not--
            (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
        employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
        through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
        benefits;
            (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
        of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
        function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
        status from the same or substantially equivalent job within the 
        Department; or
            (3) affect existing contracts for services.

                    payments in lieu of taxes (pilt)

    Sec. 114.  Section 6906 of title 31, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2019''.

                              sage-grouse

    Sec. 115.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to write or issue 
pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1533)--
            (1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus 
        urophasianus);
            (2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin distinct 
        population segment of greater sage-grouse.

                          technical correction

    Sec. 116.  Division II of Public Law 104-333 (54 U.S.C. 320101 
note), as amended by section 116(b)(2) of Public Law 114-113, is 
amended in each of sections 208, 310, and 607, by striking ``2017'' and 
inserting ``2019''.

  damage to department of the interior facilities by volcanic eruption

    Sec. 117.  (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a 
report on each facility and related infrastructure of the Department of 
the Interior damaged by a volcanic eruption covered by a major disaster 
declared by the President in calendar year 2018 in accordance with 
section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) (referred to in this section as a 
``covered facility'').
    (b) The report submitted under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) an inventory of all covered facilities;
            (2) a description of--
                    (A) any closures of covered facilities; and
                    (B) the estimated impact on visitorship to covered 
                facilities open to the public as a result of a volcanic 
                eruption; and
            (3) a plan--
                    (A) to restore or replace covered facilities; and
                    (B) to restore visitorship levels to covered 
                facilities open to the public to historic visitorship 
                levels.
    (c) In preparing the plan required under subsection (b)(3), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall--
            (1) engage the community in which the covered facility is 
        located, including the State and units of local government; and
            (2) include the estimated costs of carrying out the 
        activities described in the plan.
    Sec. 118. (a) There are appropriated under the heading ``Operation 
of Indian Programs'' under the heading ``Bureau of Indian Affairs and 
Bureau of Indian Education'', in addition to any other amounts made 
available under such heading and in order to provide additional funding 
for hiring staff for tribal detention facilities, including addressing 
the needs of newly funded tribal detention facilities, $2,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the total 
amount appropriated under the heading ``Working Capital Fund'' for the 
Department of the Interior is hereby reduced by $2,000,000.

                                TITLE II

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980; necessary expenses for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; and other operating expenses in support of research and 
development, $717,723,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2020:  Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
$5,000,000 shall be for Research: National Priorities as specified in 
the report accompanying this Act:  Provided further, That of 
unobligated balances from appropriations made available under this 
heading, $11,250,000 are permanently rescinded:  Provided further, That 
no amounts may be rescinded pursuant to the preceding proviso from 
amounts made available in the first proviso for Research: National 
Priorities:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, not less than $5,000,000 shall be used to investigate 
health impacts from exposure to harmful algal blooms and cyanobacteria 
toxins, and to develop innovative methods to monitor, characterize, and 
predict blooms for early action.

                 Environmental Programs and Management

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library 
memberships in societies or associations which issue publications to 
members only or at a price to members lower than to subscribers who are 
not members; administrative costs of the brownfields program under the 
Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 
2002; implementation of a coal combustion residual permit program under 
section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to exceed 
$9,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$2,659,675,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, $15,000,000 
shall be for Environmental Protection: National Priorities as specified 
in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided further, That of the 
funds included under this heading, $454,958,000 shall be for Geographic 
Programs specified in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available under this heading, $61,676,000 are permanently rescinded:  
Provided further, That no amounts may be rescinded pursuant to the 
preceding proviso from amounts made available in the first proviso for 
Environmental Protection: National Priorities, from amounts made 
available in the second proviso for Geographic Programs, or from the 
National Estuary Program (33 U.S.C. 1330).
    In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses of activities described in section 26(b)(1) of the 
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2625(b)(1)):  Provided, That 
fees collected pursuant to that section of that Act and deposited in 
the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in 
fiscal year 2019 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and 
expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated in this 
paragraph from the general fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced 
by the amount of discretionary offsetting receipts received during 
fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent that amounts realized from such 
receipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in excess of $5,000,000 shall 
be deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary 
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2019, shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the funds included 
in the first paragraph under this heading, the Chemical Risk Review and 
Reduction program project shall be allocated for this fiscal year, 
excluding the amount of any fees appropriated, not less than the amount 
of appropriations for that program project for fiscal year 2014.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$41,489,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                        Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $34,467,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including 
sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) 
$1,091,947,000, to remain available until expended, consisting of such 
sums as are available in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as 
authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and 
Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $1,091,947,000 as a 
payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund for 
purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be allocated to other Federal 
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA:  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $8,718,000 
shall be paid to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, and $17,398,000 shall be 
paid to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act, $91,941,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$66,572,000 shall be for carrying out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code:  Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to use appropriations made available under this heading to 
implement section 9013 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide 
financial assistance to federally recognized Indian tribes for the 
development and implementation of programs to manage underground 
storage tanks.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$18,209,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,575,041,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which--
            (1) $1,394,000,000 shall be for making capitalization 
        grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
        $864,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for the 
        Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of the 
        Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, That for fiscal year 2019, 
        to the extent there are sufficient eligible project 
        applications and projects are consistent with State Intended 
        Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the funds made available 
        under this title to each State for Clean Water State Revolving 
        Fund capitalization grants shall be used by the State for 
        projects to address green infrastructure, water or energy 
        efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative 
        activities:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, funds 
        made available under this title to each State for Drinking 
        Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants may, at the 
        discretion of each State, be used for projects to address green 
        infrastructure, water or energy efficiency improvements, or 
        other environmentally innovative activities:  Provided further, 
        That notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, the limitation on the amounts in a State 
        water pollution control revolving fund that may be used by a 
        State to administer the fund shall not apply to amounts 
        included as principal in loans made by such fund in fiscal year 
        2019 and prior years where such amounts represent costs of 
        administering the fund to the extent that such amounts are or 
        were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, accounted for 
        separately from other assets in the fund, and used for eligible 
        purposes of the fund, including administration:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the 
        provisions of subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, grants made under 
        title II of such Act for American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth 
        of the Northern Marianas, the United States Virgin Islands, and 
        the District of Columbia may also be made for the purpose of 
        providing assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the provisions of such 
        subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section 
        518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds 
        reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act may also be used to 
        provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding any provision of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act and regulations issued pursuant 
        thereof, up to a total of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by 
        the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of such Act 
        may also be used for grants for training, technical assistance, 
        and educational programs relating to the operation and 
        management of the treatment works specified in section 518(c) 
        of such Act:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, 
        funds reserved under section 518(c) of such Act shall be 
        available for grants only to Indian tribes, as defined in 
        section 518(h) of such Act and former Indian reservations in 
        Oklahoma (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and 
        Native Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the 
        limitation on amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
        appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
        notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the 
        funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, for 
        State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
        1452(i) of such Acts:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 
        2019, notwithstanding the amounts specified in section 205(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent 
        of the aggregate funds appropriated for the Clean Water State 
        Revolving Fund program under the Act less any sums reserved 
        under section 518(c) of the Act, may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants made under title II of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States Virgin 
        Islands:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, 
        notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in section 
        1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of 
        the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water State Revolving 
        Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act may be reserved 
        by the Administrator for grants made under section 1452(j) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the funds made available under this title to each State for 
        Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants and 20 
        percent of the funds made available under this title to each 
        State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization 
        grants shall be used by the State to provide additional subsidy 
        to eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, 
        negative interest loans, or grants (or any combination of 
        these), and shall be so used by the State only where such funds 
        are provided as initial financing for an eligible recipient or 
        to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt obligations of 
        eligible recipients only where such debt was incurred on or 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, or where such debt was 
        incurred prior to the date of enactment of this Act if the 
        State, with concurrence from the Administrator, determines that 
        such funds could be used to help address a threat to public 
        health from heightened exposure to lead in drinking water or if 
        a Federal or State emergency declaration has been issued due to 
        a threat to public health from heightened exposure to lead in a 
        municipal drinking water supply before the date of enactment of 
        this Act:  Provided further, That in a State in which such an 
        emergency declaration has been issued, the State may use more 
        than 20 percent of the funds made available under this title to 
        the State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
        capitalization grants to provide additional subsidy to eligible 
        recipients;
            (2) $15,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, 
        planning, design, construction and related activities in 
        connection with the construction of high priority water and 
        wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
        Border, after consultation with the appropriate border 
        commission:  Provided, That no funds provided by this 
        appropriations Act to address the water, wastewater and other 
        critical infrastructure needs of the colonias in the United 
        States along the United States-Mexico border shall be made 
        available to a county or municipal government unless that 
        government has established an enforceable local ordinance, or 
        other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
        development or construction of any additional colonia areas, or 
        the development within an existing colonia the construction of 
        any new home, business, or other structure which lacks water, 
        wastewater, or other necessary infrastructure;
            (3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
        to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
        of rural and Alaska Native Villages:  Provided, That of these 
        funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
        percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
        for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State of 
        Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide priority 
        list established in conjunction with the Agency and the U.S. 
        Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, waste disposal, 
        and similar projects carried out by the State of Alaska that 
        are funded under section 221 of the Federal Water Pollution 
        Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which shall allocate 
        not less than 25 percent of the funds provided for projects in 
        regional hub communities;
            (4) $80,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
        agreements, and associated program support costs:  Provided, 
        That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
        carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
        characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
        described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA:  Provided 
        further, That at least 10 percent shall be allocated for 
        assistance in persistent poverty counties:  Provided further, 
        That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
        poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or 
        more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
        years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and 
        the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates;
            (5) $50,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
        subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
            (6) $50,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions in the report 
        accompanying this Act;
            (7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water quality 
        program authorized in section 5004(d) of the Water 
        Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public Law 114-
        322); and
            (8) $1,093,041,000 shall be for grants, including 
        associated program support costs, to States, federally 
        recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
        air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single media 
        pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
        activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions set 
        forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making 
        grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate 
        matter monitoring and data collection activities subject to 
        terms and conditions specified by the Administrator, of which: 
        $47,745,000 shall be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA; 
        $9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Information Exchange 
        Network grants, including associated program support costs; 
        $1,498,000 shall be for grants to States under section 
        2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, which shall be in 
        addition to funds appropriated under the heading ``Leaking 
        Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the 
        provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 
        9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) 
        of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds 
        available for grants under section 106 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act shall be for State participation in 
        national- and State-level statistical surveys of water 
        resources and enhancements to State monitoring programs; 
        $27,000,000 shall be for multipurpose grants, including 
        interagency agreements.

      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account

    For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans, 
as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$610,000,000.
    In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to sections 
5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014 shall be deposited in this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

             (including transfers and rescission of funds)

    For fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in 
carrying out the Agency's function to implement directly Federal 
environmental programs required or authorized by law in the absence of 
an acceptable tribal program, may award cooperative agreements to 
federally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
authorized by their member tribes, to assist the Administrator in 
implementing Federal environmental programs for Indian tribes required 
or authorized by law, except that no such cooperative agreements may be 
awarded from funds designated for State financial assistance 
agreements.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration service fees 
in accordance with section 33 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
and Rodenticide Act, as amended by Public Law 112-177, the Pesticide 
Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2012.
    Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(d)(2)), the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may assess fees 
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2019.
    The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to $300,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under 
the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' to the head of 
any Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement programs, projects, 
or activities; to enter into an interagency agreement with the head of 
such Federal department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions, and individuals for planning, research, monitoring, 
outreach, and implementation in furtherance of the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
    The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and Management, 
Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance Superfund, and Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are available for 
the construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 per 
project.
    For fiscal year 2019, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the 
Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated for any 
fiscal year under section 319 of the Act to make grants to Indian 
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e) of that Act.
    The Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated 
under the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' for fiscal 
year 2019 to provide grants to implement the Southeastern New England 
Watershed Restoration Program.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
authorized to collect and obligate fees in accordance with section 3024 
of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g) for fiscal year 2019.
    Of the unobligated balances available for the ``State and Tribal 
Assistance Grants'' account, $109,078,000 are hereby permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or from amounts that 
were made available by subsection (a) of section 196 of the Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2017 (division C of Public Law 114-223), as amended 
by the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 
2017 (Public Law 114-254).
    Using funds appropriated under this title, the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall implement the recommendations 
described in the report of the Office of Inspector General of the 
Environmental Protection Agency entitled ``Management Weakness Delayed 
Response to Flint Water Crisis'', numbered 18-P-0221, and dated July 
19, 2018, to ensure clean and safe water compliance under the Safe 
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.). If the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency does not implement 1 or more 
recommendations required by the preceding sentence, the Administrator 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Environment and 
Public Works of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report explaining 
why the Administrator did not implement the recommendation and 
identifying specific actions the Administrator is implementing to 
address the concerns raised in the report.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

  office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $875,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to any agency in the Natural Resources and 
Environment mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the office.

                             Forest Service

                     forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $300,000,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2022, of which not less than $500,000 shall be made available for 
wood utilization research to develop woody and agricultural biomass 
conversion of low-value woody biomass using microwave-assisted 
liquefaction:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $77,000,000 is for 
the forest inventory and analysis program:  Provided further, That all 
authorities for the use of funds, including the use of contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements, available to execute the Forest and 
Rangeland Research appropriation, are also available in the utilization 
of these funds for Fire Science Research.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, and conducting an 
international program as authorized, $333,990,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2022, as authorized by law; of which $65,490,000 
is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be used 
for the Forest Legacy Program, to remain available until expended.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, and for hazardous fuels management on or 
adjacent to such lands, $1,937,653,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2022:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $40,000,000 
shall be deposited in the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration 
Fund for ecological restoration treatments as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
7303(f):  Provided further, That of the funds provided, $368,000,000 
shall be for forest products:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $435,000,000 shall be for hazardous fuels management 
activities, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make 
grants, using any authorities available to the Forest Service under the 
``State and Private Forestry'' appropriation, for the purpose of 
creating incentives for increased use of biomass from National Forest 
System lands:  Provided further, That $20,000,000 may be used by the 
Secretary of Agriculture to enter into procurement contracts or 
cooperative agreements or to issue grants for hazardous fuels 
management activities, and for training or monitoring associated with 
such hazardous fuels management activities on Federal land, or on non-
Federal land if the Secretary determines such activities benefit 
resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That funds made available 
to implement the Community Forestry Restoration Act, Public Law 106-
393, title VI, shall be available for use on non-Federal lands in 
accordance with authorities made available to the Forest Service under 
the ``State and Private Forestry'' appropriations:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 33 of the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calculating a fee for 
grazing on a National Grassland, may provide a credit of up to 50 
percent of the calculated fee to a Grazing Association or direct 
permittee for a conservation practice approved by the Secretary in 
advance of the fiscal year in which the cost of the conservation 
practice is incurred. And, that the amount credited shall remain 
available to the Grazing Association or the direct permittee, as 
appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is made and each 
fiscal year thereafter for use on the project for conservation 
practices approved by the Secretary.

                  capital improvement and maintenance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $449,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 
2022, for construction, capital improvement, maintenance and 
acquisition of buildings and other facilities and infrastructure; and 
for construction, reconstruction, decommissioning of roads that are no 
longer needed, including unauthorized roads that are not part of the 
transportation system, and maintenance of forest roads and trails by 
the Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 
and 205:  Provided, That funds becoming available in fiscal year 2019 
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to 
the General Fund of the Treasury and shall not be available for 
transfer or obligation for any other purpose unless the funds are 
appropriated.

                            land acquisition

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of chapter 2003 
of title 54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, and 
for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance 
with statutory authority applicable to the Forest Service, $74,099,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain 
available until expended.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available for Land 
Acquisition and derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, 
$16,028,000 is hereby permanently rescinded from projects with cost 
savings or failed or partially failed projects that had funds returned: 
 Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita 
National Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities, and for authorized 
expenditures from funds deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to 
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 
(16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available through September 30, 2021, (16 
U.S.C. 516-617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, 76-591; 
and Public Law 78-310).

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, to remain available through September 30, 2022, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2022, to be derived from the fund 
established pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage Federal 
lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), 
$2,500,000, to remain available through September 30, 2022.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency wildland fire suppression 
on or adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection 
agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water, $3,229,620,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2022:  Provided, That such funds including 
unobligated balances under this heading, are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriations accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes:  Provided further, That any unobligated funds 
appropriated in a previous fiscal year for hazardous fuels management 
may be transferred to the ``National Forest System'' account:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to reimburse State and 
other cooperating entities for services provided in response to 
wildfire and other emergencies or disasters to the extent such 
reimbursements by the Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are fully 
repaid by the responsible emergency management agency:  Provided 
further, That funds provided shall be available for support to Federal 
emergency response:  Provided further, That the costs of implementing 
any cooperative agreement between the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected 
parties:  Provided further, That funds designated for wildfire 
suppression, shall be assessed for cost pools on the same basis as such 
assessments are calculated against other agency programs.

               administrative provisions--forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; 
acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire 
of such vehicles; purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and 
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the operable fleet for use in 
Forest Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service 
programs; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) 
services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost 
of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt 
collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
transferred to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation for forest 
firefighting, emergency rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands 
or waters under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
burning conditions upon the Secretary's notification of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations that all fire suppression funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' will be 
obligated within 30 days:  Provided, That all funds used pursuant to 
this paragraph must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation 
which must be requested as promptly as possible.
    Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer to the 
Department of the Interior for wildland fire management, hazardous 
fuels management, and State fire assistance when such transfers would 
facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and projects.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Forest Service 
may transfer unobligated balances of discretionary funds appropriated 
to the Forest Service by this Act to or within the National Forest 
System Account, or reprogram funds to be used for the purposes of 
hazardous fuels management and urgent rehabilitation of burned-over 
National Forest System lands and water, such transferred funds shall 
remain available through September 30, 2022:  Provided, That none of 
the funds transferred pursuant to this section shall be available for 
obligation without written notification to and the prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided 
further, That this section does not apply to funds appropriated to the 
FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Fund or funds derived from the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development in 
connection with forest and rangeland research, technical information, 
and assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with U.S., private, 
and international organizations. The Forest Service, acting for the 
International Program, may sign direct funding agreements with foreign 
governments and institutions as well as other domestic agencies 
(including the U.S. Agency for International Development, the 
Department of State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. 
private sector firms, institutions and organizations to provide 
technical assistance and training programs overseas on forestry and 
rangeland management.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Land Management, for removal, preparation, and adoption of excess wild 
horses and burros from National Forest System lands, and for the 
performance of cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such 
lands.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act 
or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year shall be subject to 
transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public 
Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-171 
(7 U.S.C. 8316(b)).
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the reprogramming 
procedures contained in the report accompanying this Act.
    Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest Service 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the Department of 
Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 of funds available to the 
Forest Service shall be transferred to the Department of Agriculture 
for Department Reimbursable Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook 
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in order to 
obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's National 
Information Technology Center and the Department of Agriculture's 
International Technology Service.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $5,000,000 
shall be available for priority projects within the scope of the 
approved budget, which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation 
Corps and shall be carried out under the authority of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.).
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of 
the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be 
advanced in a lump sum to the National Forest Foundation to aid 
conservation partnership projects in support of the Forest Service 
mission, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to 
Forest Service programs:  Provided, That of the Federal funds made 
available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be available 
for administrative expenses:  Provided further, That the Foundation 
shall obtain, by the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, 
private contributions to match funds made available by the Forest 
Service on at least a one-for-one basis:  Provided further, That the 
Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal 
recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient has 
obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $3,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service may be advanced to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a lump sum to aid cost-share 
conservation projects, without regard to when expenses are incurred, on 
or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
Service programs:  Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-recipients:  
Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a 
Federal or non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities and natural resource-based businesses for sustainable rural 
development purposes.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to meet 
the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
    The Forest Service shall not assess funds for the purpose of 
performing fire, administrative, and other facilities maintenance and 
decommissioning.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any appropriations 
or funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department 
of Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of 
OGC assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at 
meetings, training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
negotiations and similar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Future 
budget justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the sums requested for transfer.
    An eligible individual who is employed in any project funded under 
title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and 
administered by the Forest Service shall be considered to be a Federal 
employee for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, through the Office 
of Budget and Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall report no 
later than 30 business days following the close of each fiscal quarter 
all current and prior year unobligated balances, by fiscal year, budget 
line item and account, to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$4,072,385,000, together with payments received during the fiscal year 
pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 238(b), 238b), for services furnished by the Indian Health 
Service:  Provided, That funds made available to tribes and tribal 
organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any other 
agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be 
obligated at the time of the grant or contract award and thereafter 
shall remain available to the tribe or tribal organization without 
fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be 
available for grants or contracts with public or private institutions 
to provide alcohol or drug treatment services to Indians, including 
alcohol detoxification services:  Provided further, That $964,819,000 
for Purchased/Referred Care, including $53,000,000 for the Indian 
Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That of the funds provided, up to 
$36,000,000 shall remain available until expended for implementation of 
the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act:  Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$15,000,000 shall remain available until expended to supplement funds 
available for operational costs at tribal clinics operated under an 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act compact or 
contract where health care is delivered in space acquired through a 
full service lease, which is not eligible for maintenance and 
improvement and equipment funds from the Indian Health Service, and 
$58,000,000 shall be for costs related to or resulting from 
accreditation emergencies, of which up to $4,000,000 may be used to 
supplement amounts otherwise available for Purchased/Referred Care:  
Provided further, That the amounts collected by the Federal Government 
as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during the preceding fiscal 
year for breach of contracts shall be deposited to the Fund authorized 
by section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and shall remain 
available until expended and, notwithstanding section 108A(c) of that 
Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available to make new awards 
under the loan repayment and scholarship programs under sections 104 
and 108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):  Provided further, 
That the amounts made available within this account for the Substance 
Abuse and Suicide Prevention Program, for opioid Prevention, Treatment 
and Recovery Services, for the Domestic Violence Prevention Program, 
for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the housing subsidy authority for 
civilian employees, for aftercare pilot programs at Youth Regional 
Treatment Centers, to improve collections from public and private 
insurance at Indian Health Service and tribally operated facilities, 
and for accreditation emergencies shall be allocated at the discretion 
of the Director of the Indian Health Service and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may 
be used for annual contracts and grants for which the performance 
period falls within 2 fiscal years, provided the total obligation is 
recorded in the year the funds are appropriated:  Provided further, 
That the amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services under the authority of title IV of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act shall remain available until expended for the purpose 
of achieving compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements 
of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act, except for those 
related to the planning, design, or construction of new facilities:  
Provided further, That funding contained herein for scholarship 
programs under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That amounts received by 
tribes and tribal organizations under title IV of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act shall be reported and accounted for and available 
to the receiving tribes and tribal organizations until expended:  
Provided further, That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from 
the Indian Health Service, and from tribes and tribal organizations 
operating health facilities pursuant to Public Law 93-638, such 
individually identifiable health information relating to disabled 
children as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out its 
functions under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 1400 et seq.):  Provided further, That the accreditation 
emergency funds may be used, as needed, to carry out activities 
typically funded under the Indian Health Facilities account.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Indian Health Service for fiscal 
year 2019, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities 
support activities of the Indian Health Service, $877,504,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction, renovation or expansion of health facilities for the 
benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land on 
which such facilities will be located:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health Service to purchase 
TRANSAM equipment from the Department of Defense for distribution to 
the Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be 
used for sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with 
grants by the housing programs of the United States Department of 
Housing and Urban Development:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$2,700,000 from this account and the ``Indian Health Services'' account 
may be used by the Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances for the 
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities in conjunction with an 
existing interagency agreement between the Indian Health Service and 
the General Services Administration:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 may be placed in a Demolition Fund, to remain available 
until expended, and be used by the Indian Health Service for the 
demolition of Federal buildings.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

    Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service 
shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at rates 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; uniforms or 
allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for 
expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the functions or 
activities of the Indian Health Service:  Provided, That in accordance 
with the provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-
Indian patients may be extended health care at all tribally 
administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, 
and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the 
account of the facility providing the service and shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act and Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
to the Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for 
administrative and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to 
limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
Health Service in this Act shall be used for any assessments or charges 
by the Department of Health and Human Services unless identified in the 
budget justification and provided in this Act, or approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations through the reprogramming 
process:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal 
organization through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by 
title I or title V of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5321 et seq. (title I), 5381 et seq. 
(title V)), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination 
contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title V of 
such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act shall be used to implement the final rule published in the Federal 
Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human 
Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care services of 
the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health Service has submitted 
a budget request reflecting the increased costs associated with the 
proposed final rule, and such request has been included in an 
appropriations Act and enacted into law:  Provided further, That with 
respect to functions transferred by the Indian Health Service to tribes 
or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is authorized to 
provide goods and services to those entities on a reimbursable basis, 
including payments in advance with subsequent adjustment, and the 
reimbursements received therefrom, along with the funds received from 
those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act, may be 
credited to the same or subsequent appropriation account from which the 
funds were originally derived, with such amounts to remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That reimbursements for training, 
technical assistance, or services provided by the Indian Health Service 
will contain total costs, including direct, administrative, and 
overhead costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or 
technical assistance:  Provided further, That the Indian Health Service 
may provide to civilian medical personnel serving in hospitals operated 
by the Indian Health Service housing allowances equivalent to those 
that would be provided to members of the Commissioned Corps of the 
United States Public Health Service serving in similar positions at 
such hospitals:  Provided further, That the appropriation structure for 
the Indian Health Service may not be altered without advance 
notification to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                     National Institutes of Health

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section 311(a) 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, $78,349,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and section 
3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $74,691,000:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, in lieu of performing a 
health assessment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator 
of ATSDR may conduct other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or 
activities, including, without limitation, biomedical testing, clinical 
evaluations, medical monitoring, and referral to accredited healthcare 
providers:  Provided further, That in performing any such health 
assessment or health study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator 
of ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of 
CERCLA:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 
toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 2019, and existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                   Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, and not to exceed $750 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $3,005,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as chairman and 
exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$11,000,000:  Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard 
Investigation Board (Board) shall have not more than three career 
Senior Executive Service positions:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual appointed to 
the position of Inspector General of the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of such appointment, also hold the 
position of Inspector General of the Board:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General of 
the Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector General of 
EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector General of the Board, and 
shall not appoint any individuals to positions within the Board.

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $7,400,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household:  Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home:  Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public 
Law 93-531 (88 Stat. 1716).

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A of title XV of 
Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), $9,960,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 2019, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease agreements of no 
more than 30 years, and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees, $739,894,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed $6,917,000 
for the instrumentation program, collections acquisition, exhibition 
reinstallation, and the repatriation of skeletal remains program shall 
remain available until expended; and including such funds as may be 
necessary to support American overseas research centers:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated herein are available for advance payments to 
independent contractors performing research services or participating 
in official Smithsonian presentations.

                           facilities capital

    For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by 
contract or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 
22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and for construction, including necessary 
personnel, $303,503,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $144,202,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, of 
which not to exceed $3,620,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, for operating lease 
agreements of no more than 10 years, with no extensions or renewals 
beyond the 10 years, that address space needs created by the ongoing 
renovations in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $23,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That contracts awarded 
for environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $24,490,000.

                     capital repair and restoration

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $16,800,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$12,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 shall be available to 
the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of projects and 
productions in the arts, including arts education and public outreach 
activities, through assistance to organizations and individuals 
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 to remain available 
until expended, of which $143,700,000 shall be available for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and 
for administering the functions of the Act; and $11,300,000 shall be 
available to carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
10(a)(2) of the Act, including $9,100,000 for the purposes of section 
7(h):  Provided, That appropriations for carrying out section 10(a)(2) 
shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal 
to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the National 
Endowment for the Humanities under the provisions of sections 
11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal 
years for which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                       Administrative Provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts may approve grants of up to 
$10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of such grants does not exceed 
5 percent of the sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year:  
Provided further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority from the 
National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 91 of 
title 40, United States Code, $2,771,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its 
publications, and such fees shall be credited to this account as an 
offsetting collection, to remain available until expended without 
further appropriation:  Provided further, That the Commission is 
authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, artwork, 
drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history and design of the 
Nation's Capital or the history and activities of the Commission of 
Fine Arts, for the purpose of artistic display, study, or education:  
Provided further, That one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided 
under this heading may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956a), $2,750,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $6,440,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning Commission 
under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,948,000:  Provided, That one-quarter of 
1 percent of the funds provided under this heading may be used for 
official reception and representational expenses associated with 
hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and physical 
development of world capitals.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                       holocaust memorial museum

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as authorized by 
Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), $59,500,000, of which 
$1,715,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021, for the 
Museum's equipment replacement program; and of which $4,000,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,500,000 for the 
Museum's outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
expended.

                Dwight d. Eisenhower Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission, $1,800,000, to remain available until expended.

                 women's suffrage centennial commission

    For necessary expenses for the Women's Suffrage Centennial 
Commission, as authorized by the Women's Suffrage Centennial Commission 
Act (section 431(a)(3) of division G of Public Law 115-31), $1,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                   world war i centennial commission

                         salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding section 9 of the World War I Centennial Commission 
Act, as authorized by the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public 
Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), 
for necessary expenses of the World War I Centennial Commission, 
$7,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
addition to the authority provided by section 6(g) of such Act, the 
World War I Commission may accept money, in-kind personnel services, 
contractual support, or any appropriate support from any executive 
branch agency for activities of the Commission.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is 
not complete other than to communicate to Members of Congress as 
described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

                      obligation of appropriations

    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 disclosure of administrative expenses

    Sec. 403.  The amount and basis of estimated overhead charges, 
deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working capital fund and 
cost pool charges, from programs, projects, activities and 
subactivities to support government-wide, departmental, agency, or 
bureau administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
operations shall be presented in annual budget justifications and 
subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates shall be 
presented to the Committees on Appropriations for approval.

                          mining applications

    Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned (1) a patent 
application was filed with the Secretary on or before September 30, 
1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode claims, 
sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case may be, were 
fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2020, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on actions taken by 
the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of 
the mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as 
set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have 
the sole responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.

             contract support costs, prior year limitation

    Sec. 405.  Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235) 
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2019.

          contract support costs, fiscal year 2019 limitation

    Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2019 under 
the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health 
Service, Contract Support Costs'' and ``Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, Contract 
Support Costs'' are the only amounts available for contract support 
costs arising out of self-determination or self-governance contracts, 
grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2019 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian Health Service:  
Provided, That such amounts provided by this Act are not available for 
payment of claims for contract support costs for prior years, or for 
repayments of payments for settlements or judgments awarding contract 
support costs for prior years.

                        forest management plans

    Sec. 407.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be considered to 
be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and Rangeland 
Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) 
solely because more than 15 years have passed without revision of the 
plan for a unit of the National Forest System. Nothing in this section 
exempts the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) or 
any other law:  Provided, That if the Secretary is not acting 
expeditiously and in good faith, within the funding available, to 
revise a plan for a unit of the National Forest System, this section 
shall be void with respect to such plan and a court of proper 
jurisdiction may order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.

                 prohibition within national monuments

    Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to conduct 
preleasing, leasing and related activities under either the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a National 
Monument established pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 
et seq.) as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
such activities are allowed under the Presidential proclamation 
establishing such monument.

                         limitation on takings

    Sec. 409.  Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds appropriated 
in this Act for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands may be 
expended for the filing of declarations of taking or complaints in 
condemnation without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That this provision shall not apply to funds 
appropriated to implement the Everglades National Park Protection and 
Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal assistance 
to the State of Florida to acquire lands for Everglades restoration 
purposes.

                        timber sale requirements

    Sec. 410.  No timber sale in Alaska's Region 10 shall be advertised 
if the indicated rate is deficit (defined as the value of the timber is 
not sufficient to cover all logging and stumpage costs and provide a 
normal profit and risk allowance under the Forest Service's appraisal 
process) when appraised using a residual value appraisal. The western 
red cedar timber from those sales which is surplus to the needs of the 
domestic processors in Alaska, shall be made available to domestic 
processors in the contiguous 48 United States at prevailing domestic 
prices. All additional western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska or 
contiguous 48 United States domestic processors may be exported to 
foreign markets at the election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska 
yellow cedar may be sold at prevailing export prices at the election of 
the timber sale holder.

                    prohibition on no-bid contracts

    Sec. 411.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be used to enter 
into any Federal contract unless such contract is entered into in 
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United 
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless--
            (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
        entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
        formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
        tribes; or
            (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, 
        25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
        specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
        defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
            (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

                           posting of reports

    Sec. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

    Sec. 413.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
        American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
        to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used 
        to make a grant to any other organization or individual to 
        conduct activity independent of the direct grant recipient. 
        Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments made in 
        exchange for goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

    Sec. 414. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given 
to providing services or awarding financial assistance for projects, 
productions, workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
        below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.
    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
        and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
        grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

                  status of balances of appropriations

    Sec. 415.  The Department of the Interior, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health Service 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the status of balances 
of appropriations including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated 
funds in each program and activity.

                      prohibition on use of funds

    Sec. 416.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this Act or any other Act may be used to 
promulgate or implement any regulation requiring the issuance of 
permits under title V of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.) for 
carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water vapor, or methane emissions 
resulting from biological processes associated with livestock 
production.

                 greenhouse gas reporting restrictions

    Sec. 417.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this or any other Act may be used to implement 
any provision in a rule, if that provision requires mandatory reporting 
of greenhouse gas emissions from manure management systems.

                          funding prohibition

    Sec. 418.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to regulate the lead content of ammunition, ammunition 
components, or fishing tackle under the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.

                        contracting authorities

    Sec. 419.  Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 is 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2020''.

                      extension of grazing permits

    Sec. 420.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public Law 
108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits issued by the 
Forest Service on any lands not subject to administration under section 
402 of the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), 
shall remain in effect for fiscal year 2019.

                          funding prohibition

    Sec. 421. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network is 
designed to block access to pornography websites.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.

        forest service facility realignment and enhancement act

    Sec. 422.  Section 503(f) of the Forest Service Facility 
Realignment and Enhancement Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public 
Law 109-54) is amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2019''.

                     use of american iron and steel

    Sec. 423. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a State water 
pollution control revolving fund as authorized by section 1452 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) shall be used for a project 
for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public 
water system or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in 
this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver under this 
section, the Administrator shall make available to the public on an 
informal basis a copy of the request and information available to the 
Administrator concerning the request, and shall allow for informal 
public input on the request for at least 15 days prior to making a 
finding based on the request. The Administrator shall make the request 
and accompanying information available by electronic means, including 
on the official public Internet Web site of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions described in subsection 
(a)(1) for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
section.

                             midway island

    Sec. 424.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to destroy any buildings or structures on Midway Island that have been 
recommended by the United States Navy for inclusion in the National 
Register of Historic Places (54 U.S.C. 302101).

                 john f. kennedy center reauthorization

    Sec. 425.  Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy Center Act (20 U.S.C. 
76r) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Maintenance, Repair, and Security.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H), $24,490,000 
for fiscal year 2019.
    ``(b) Capital Projects.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Board to carry out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section 4(a)(1), 
$16,800,000 for fiscal year 2019.''.

local cooperator training agreements and transfers of excess equipment 
                       and supplies for wildfires

    Sec. 426.  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter 
into grants and cooperative agreements with volunteer fire departments, 
rural fire departments, rangeland fire protection associations, and 
similar organizations to provide for wildland fire training and 
equipment, including supplies and communication devices. 
Notwithstanding 121(c) of title 40, United States Code, or section 521 
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary is further authorized to 
transfer title to excess Department of the Interior firefighting 
equipment no longer needed to carry out the functions of the 
Department's wildland fire management program to such organizations.

                             infrastructure

    Sec. 427. (a) For an additional amount for ``Environmental 
Protection Agency--Hazardous Substance Superfund'', $43,000,000, of 
which $38,000,000 shall be for the Superfund Remedial program and 
$5,000,000 shall be for the Superfund Emergency Response and Removal 
program, to remain available until expended, consisting of such sums as 
are available in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as authorized by 
section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 
1986 (SARA) and up to $43,000,000 as a payment from general revenues to 
the Hazardous Substance Superfund for purposes as authorized by section 
517(b) of SARA.
    (b) For an additional amount for ``Environmental Protection 
Agency--State and Tribal Assistance Grants,'' for environmental 
programs and infrastructure assistance, including capitalization grants 
for State revolving funds and performance partnership grants, 
$670,000,000 to remain available until expended, of which--
            (1) $300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants 
        for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which $300,000,000 
        shall be for making capitalization grants for the Drinking 
        Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act;
            (2) $30,000,000 shall be for grants for small and 
        disadvantaged communities authorized in section 2104 of the 
        Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public 
        Law 114-322);
            (3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for lead testing in 
        school and child care program drinking water authorized in 
        section 2107 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the 
        Nation Act (Public Law 114-322);
            (4) $15,000,000 shall be for grants for reducing lead in 
        drinking water authorized in section 2105 of the Water 
        Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public Law 114-
        322).
    (c) For an additional amount for ``Environmental Protection 
Agency--Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account'', 
$53,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the cost of direct 
loans, for the cost of guaranteed loans, and for administrative 
expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, of which 
$3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, may be used 
for such administrative expenses:  Provided, That these additional 
funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, including capitalized interest, and total loan 
principal, including capitalized interest, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $6,100,000,000.

                  policies relating to biomass energy

    Sec. 428.  To support the key role that forests in the United 
States can play in addressing the energy needs of the United States, 
the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, consistent 
with their missions, jointly--
            (1) ensure that Federal policy relating to forest 
        bioenergy--
                    (A) is consistent across all Federal departments 
                and agencies; and
                    (B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of 
                forest biomass for energy, conservation, and 
                responsible forest management; and
            (2) establish clear and simple policies for the use of 
        forest biomass as an energy solution, including policies that--
                    (A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest 
                bioenergy and recognize biomass as a renewable energy 
                source, provided the use of forest biomass for energy 
                production does not cause conversion of forests to non-
                forest use;
                    (B) encourage private investment throughout the 
                forest biomass supply chain, including in--
                            (i) working forests;
                            (ii) harvesting operations;
                            (iii) forest improvement operations;
                            (iv) forest bioenergy production;
                            (v) wood products manufacturing; or
                            (vi) paper manufacturing;
                    (C) encourage forest management to improve forest 
                health; and
                    (D) recognize State initiatives to produce and use 
                forest biomass.

                      clarification of exemptions

    Sec. 429.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to require a permit for the discharge of dredged or fill material under 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for 
the activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 
404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).

                       small remote incinerators

    Sec. 430.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the regulation issued on March 21, 2011 at 40 
CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD with respect to units in the State 
of Alaska that are defined as ``small, remote incinerator'' units in 
those regulations and, until a subsequent regulation is issued, the 
Administrator shall implement the law and regulations in effect prior 
to such date.

                            recreation fees

    Sec. 431.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be applied by substituting ``October 1, 
2020'' for ``September 30, 2019''.
    Sec. 432. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Department of the Interior, 
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service, the Indian 
Health Service, or the Smithsonian Institution to acquire 
telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company, 
ZTE Corporation or a high-impact or moderate-impact information system, 
as defined for security categorization in the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information Processing 
Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security Categorization of 
Federal Information and Information Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
        acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
        information systems within the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted an 
        assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
        associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
        risk associated with such system being produced, manufactured, 
        or assembled by one or more entities identified by the United 
        States Government as posing a cyber threat, including but not 
        limited to, those that may be owned, directed, or subsidized by 
        the People's Republic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
        the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or the Russian 
        Federation.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless 
the head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks;
            (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system is 
        in the vital national security interest of the United States; 
        and
            (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        in a manner that identifies the system intended for acquisition 
        and a detailed description of the mitigation strategies 
        identified in (1), provided that such report may include a 
        classified annex as necessary.
    Sec. 433.  Within available funds, not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall issue a report on efforts by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development and the Environmental Protection Agency 
relating to the removal of lead-based paint and other hazardous 
materials, which shall include--
            (1) a description of direct removal efforts by the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
        Environmental Protection Agency;
            (2) a description of education provided by the Department 
        of Housing and Urban Development and the Environmental 
        Protection Agency to other Federal agencies, local governments 
        and communities, recipients of grants made by either entity, 
        and the general public relating to the removal of lead-based 
        paint and other hazardous materials;
            (3) a description of assistance received from other Federal 
        agencies relating to the removal of lead-based paint and other 
        hazardous materials; and
            (4) any best practices developed or provided by the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
        Environmental Protection Agency relating to the removal of 
        lead-based paint and other hazardous materials.
    Sec. 434. (a) Within available funds for the National Forest 
System, the Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct an inventory and 
evaluation of certain land, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Flatside Wilderness Adjacent Inventory Areas'' and dated November 30, 
2017, to determine the suitability of that land for inclusion in the 
National Wilderness Preservation System.
    (b) The Chief of the Forest Service shall submit to the Committees 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, Appropriations, and Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate the results of the inventory and 
evaluation required under subsection (a).

         addressing pediatric cancer rates in the united states

    Sec. 435. (a) Report Identifying Geographic Variation of Types of 
Pediatric Cancer.--Using funds appropriated under the heading ``Toxic 
Substances and Environmental Health'' for the Agency for Toxic 
Substances and Disease Registry, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, 
and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, a 
report that provides details on the geographic variation in pediatric 
cancer incidence in the United States, including--
            (1) the types of pediatric cancer within each of the 10 
        States with the highest age-adjusted incidence rate of cancer 
        among persons aged 20 years or younger;
            (2) geographic concentrations of types and prevalence of 
        pediatric cancers within each such State, in accordance with 
        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines; and
            (3) an update on current activities related to pediatric 
        cancer, including with respect to carrying out section 399V-6 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g-17).
    (b) Support for States With High Incidence of Pediatric Cancer.--
Using funds appropriated under the heading ``Toxic Substances and 
Environmental Public Health'' for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may 
conduct public outreach, in collaboration with State departments of 
health, particularly in the 10 States with the highest age-adjusted 
incidence rate of cancer among persons aged 20 years or younger, to 
improve awareness by residents, clinicians, and others, as appropriate, 
of possible contributing factors to pediatric cancer, including 
environmental exposures, in a manner that is complementary of, and does 
not conflict with, ongoing pediatric cancer-related activities 
supported by the Department of Health and Human Services.
    (c) Privacy.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
ensure that all information with respect to patients that is contained 
in the reports under this section is de-identified and protects 
personal privacy of such patients in accordance with applicable Federal 
and State privacy law.
    This division may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.

 DIVISION B--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2019

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for financial services and general 
government for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Freedman's Bank 
Building; hire of passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and 
improvements of, and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, 
real properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the 
performance of official business; executive direction program 
activities; international affairs and economic policy activities; 
domestic finance and tax policy activities, including technical 
assistance to Puerto Rico; and Treasury-wide management policies and 
programs activities, $208,751,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not to exceed $700,000 is for official reception and 
        representation expenses, of which necessary amounts shall be 
        available for expenses to support activities of the Financial 
        Action Task Force, and not to exceed $350,000 shall be for 
        other official reception and representation expenses;
            (2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
        a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
        direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted 
        for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
            (3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2020, for--
                    (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
                Internal Control Program;
                    (B) information technology modernization 
                requirements;
                    (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the 
                Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
                    (D) the development and implementation of programs 
                within the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection 
                and Compliance Policy, including entering into 
                cooperative agreements;
                    (E) operations and maintenance of facilities; and
                    (F) international operations.

             office of terrorism and financial intelligence

                         salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence to safeguard the financial system against illicit use and 
to combat rogue nations, terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass 
destruction proliferators, money launderers, drug kingpins, and other 
national security threats, $159,000,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading: (1) up to $33,500,000 may be 
transferred to the Departmental Offices Salaries and Expenses 
appropriation and shall be available for administrative support to the 
Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence; and (2) up to 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided  
further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $1,000,000 shall be used to support and augment new and ongoing 
investigations into the illicit trade of synthetic opioids, 
particularly fentanyl and its analogues, originating from the People's 
Republic of China:  Provided further, That not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, in coordination with the Administrator of the Drug 
Enforcement Administration and the heads of other Federal agencies, as 
appropriate, shall submit a comprehensive report (which shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex) 
summarizing efforts by actors in the People's Republic of China to 
subvert United States laws and to supply illicit synthetic opioids to 
persons in the United States, including up-to-date estimates of the 
scale of illicit synthetic opioids flows from the People's Republic of 
China, to the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Homeland 
Security, and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

                   cybersecurity enhancement account

    For salaries and expenses for enhanced cybersecurity for systems 
operated by the Department of the Treasury, $25,208,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That such funds shall 
supplement and not supplant any other amounts made available to the 
Treasury offices and bureaus for cybersecurity:  Provided further, That 
the Chief Information Officer of the individual offices and bureaus 
shall submit a spend plan for each investment to the Treasury Chief 
Information Officer for approval:  Provided further, That the submitted 
spend plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Treasury Chief 
Information Officer prior to the obligation of funds under this 
heading:  Provided further, That of the total amount made available 
under this heading $1,000,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses for the Treasury Chief Information Officer to provide 
oversight of the investments made under this heading:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall supplement and not supplant any other 
amounts made available to the Treasury Chief Information Officer.

        department-wide systems and capital investments programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services and for repairs and renovations to 
buildings owned by the Department of the Treasury, $4,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That these funds 
shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy 
the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
organizations:  Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be used to support or supplement ``Internal Revenue 
Service, Operations Support'' or ``Internal Revenue Service, Business 
Systems Modernization''.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, shall be for audits and 
investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the Resources and 
Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies 
of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of 
which not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 
U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
rates as may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax 
Administration; $169,634,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 
shall be available for official travel expenses; of which not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General for Tax Administration; and of which not to 
exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343), $17,500,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and training 
expenses of non-Federal and foreign government personnel to attend 
meetings and training concerned with domestic and foreign financial 
intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for assistance to 
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$117,800,000, of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, $338,280,000; of which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, is for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$111,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research 
and development programs for laboratory services; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
reimbursement:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accelerating the 
processing of formula and label applications:  Provided further, That 
of the amount appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the 
United States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint 
Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments:  Provided, That the 
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obligations incurred during 
fiscal year 2019 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
protective service capital investments of the United States Mint shall 
not exceed $30,000,000.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

    To carry out the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvements Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for EX-3, $250,000,000. Of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $182,000,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to 
        Small and/or Emerging Community Development Financial 
        Institutions Assistance awards, is available until September 
        30, 2020, for financial assistance and technical assistance 
        under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 108(a)(1), 
        respectively, of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) 
        and (B)), of which up to $2,680,000 may be used for the cost of 
        direct loans:  Provided, That the cost of direct and guaranteed 
        loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
         Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
        gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
        to exceed $25,000,000;
            (2) not less than $16,000,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available 
        until September 30, 2020, for financial assistance, technical 
        assistance, training, and outreach programs designed to benefit 
        Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native communities 
        and provided primarily through qualified community development 
        lender organizations with experience and expertise in community 
        development banking and lending in Indian country, Native 
        American organizations, tribes and tribal organizations, and 
        other suitable providers;
            (3) not less than $25,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2020, for the Bank Enterprise Award program;
            (4) up to $27,000,000 is available until September 30, 
        2019, for administrative expenses, including administration of 
        CDFI fund programs and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, of 
        which not less than $1,000,000 is for development of tools to 
        better assess and inform CDFI investment performance, and up to 
        $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
        loan program; and
            (5) during fiscal year 2019, none of the funds available 
        under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
        commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A of 
        the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act 
        of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a):  Provided, That commitments to 
        guarantee bonds and notes under such section 114A shall not 
        exceed $500,000,000:  Provided further, That such section 114A 
        shall remain in effect until December 31, 2019:  Provided 
        further, That of the funds awarded under this heading, not less 
        than 10 percent shall be used for awards that support 
        investments that serve populations living in persistent poverty 
        counties:  Provided further, That for the purposes of this 
        section, the term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any 
        county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living 
        in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 1990 and 
        2000 decennial censuses and the 2011-2015 5-year data series 
        available from the American Community Survey of the Census 
        Bureau.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           taxpayer services

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to provide 
taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and education, 
filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy services, and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $2,506,554,000, of which not less than 
$9,890,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for low-income 
taxpayer clinic grants, of which not less than $20,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, shall be available for a Community 
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance matching grants program for tax return 
preparation assistance, and of which not less than $206,000,000 shall 
be available for operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate Service:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available for the Taxpayer Advocate 
Service, not less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity theft and 
refund fraud casework.

                              enforcement

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of the 
Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed taxes, to 
provide legal and litigation support, to conduct criminal 
investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related to violations of 
internal revenue laws and other financial crimes, to purchase and hire 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $4,860,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$50,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020, and of 
which not less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Interagency Crime and 
Drug Enforcement program.

                           operations support

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to support 
taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including rent payments; 
facilities services; printing; postage; physical security; headquarters 
and other IRS-wide administration activities; research and statistics 
of income; telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the operations of the 
Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $3,709,000,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for acquisition of 
equipment and construction, repair and renovation of facilities; of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021, for research; of which not to exceed $20,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided, That not 
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue 
Service shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate and the Comptroller General 
of the United States detailing the cost and schedule performance for 
its major information technology investments, including the purpose and 
life-cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and 
schedule variances; the risks of such investments and strategies the 
Internal Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the 
expected developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
incurred in the next quarter:  Provided further, That the Internal 
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal 
year 2020, a summary of cost and schedule performance information for 
its major information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's business 
systems modernization program, $110,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, for the capital asset acquisition of information 
technology systems, including management and related contractual costs 
of said acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service labor 
costs, and contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109:  Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate and the Comptroller General of the United States detailing the 
cost and schedule performance for major information technology 
investments, including the purposes and life-cycle stages of the 
investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule variances; the risks 
of such investments and the strategies the Internal Revenue Service is 
using to mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental milestones 
to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the next quarter.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an employee 
training program, which shall include the following topics: taxpayers' 
rights, dealing courteously with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, 
ethics, and the impartial application of tax law.
    Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information and protect taxpayers against identity theft.
    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased staffing to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
improvements to the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to victims of tax-
related crimes.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the Internal Revenue 
Service by this Act may be used to make a video unless the Service-Wide 
Video Editorial Board determines in advance that making the video is 
appropriate, taking into account the cost, topic, tone, and purpose of 
the video.
    Sec. 106.  The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a notice of 
confirmation of any address change relating to an employer making 
employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent to both the 
employer's former and new address and an officer or employee of the 
Internal Revenue Service shall give special consideration to an offer-
in-compromise from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a 
third party payroll tax preparer.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of the United 
States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First Amendment to 
the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for regulatory 
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
    Sec. 109.  None of funds made available by this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on conferences that do 
not adhere to the procedures, verification processes, documentation 
requirements, and policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human 
Capital Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by the 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration entitled ``Review of 
the August 2010 Small Business/Self-Employed Division's Conference in 
Anaheim, California'' (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
            (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
        or recognition program; or
            (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
        respect to re-hiring a former employee, unless such program or 
        process takes into account the conduct and Federal tax 
        compliance of such employee or former employee.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to confidentiality and disclosure of returns and return 
information).
    Sec. 112.  Except to the extent provided in section 6014, 6020, or 
6201(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, no funds in this or any 
other Act shall be available to the Secretary of the Treasury to 
provide to any person a proposed final return or statement for use by 
such person to satisfy a filing or reporting requirement under such 
Code.
    Sec. 113.  In addition to the amounts otherwise made available in 
this Act for the Internal Revenue Service, $77,000,000, to be available 
until September 30, 2020, shall be transferred by the Commissioner to 
the ``Taxpayer Services'', ``Enforcement'', or ``Operations Support'' 
accounts of the Internal Revenue Service for an additional amount to be 
used solely for carrying out Public Law 115-97:  Provided, That such 
funds shall not be available until the Commissioner submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a spending plan for such funds.

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 114.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 115.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
title made available under the headings ``Departmental Offices--
Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence'', ``Office of Inspector General'', ``Special Inspector 
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program'', ``Financial Crimes 
Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service'', and ``Alcohol 
and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau'' may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided, That no transfer under this section may increase or decrease 
any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 116.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 118.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses'' to the Debt 
Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection:  
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such salaries and 
expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Collection 
Fund.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the House Committee on Financial Services, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 120.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department of the 
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the United States 
Mint, individually or collectively, may be used to consolidate any or 
all functions of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United 
States Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 121.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of the Treasury's 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2019 until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019.
    Sec. 122.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving Fund for 
necessary official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 123.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a Capital 
Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives not later than 30 days following the 
submission of the annual budget submitted by the President:  Provided, 
That such Capital Investment Plan shall include capital investment 
spending from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and Capital 
Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund account, and the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund account:  Provided further, That such Capital 
Investment Plan shall include expenditures occurring in previous fiscal 
years for each capital investment project that has not been fully 
completed.
    Sec. 124.  Within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an itemized report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on the amount of total funds charged to each office by the 
Franchise Fund including the amount charged for each service provided 
by the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each service is 
calculated, and a description of the role customers have in governing 
in the Franchise Fund.
    Sec. 125.  During fiscal year 2019--
            (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
        Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including 
        the Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize any 
        regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited to a 
        particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is used to 
        determine whether an organization is operated exclusively for 
        the promotion of social welfare for purposes of section 
        501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including the 
        proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 
        29, 2013)); and
            (2) the standard and definitions as in effect on January 1, 
        2010, which are used to make such determinations shall apply 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act for purposes of 
        determining status under section 501(c)(4) of such Code of 
        organizations created on, before, or after such date.
    Sec. 126. (a) Not later than 60 days after the end of each quarter, 
the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial Research 
shall submit reports on their activities to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in subsection 
(a), the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial 
Research shall make officials available to testify on the contents of 
the reports required under subsection (a).
    Sec. 127.  Amounts made available under the heading ``Office of 
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence'' shall be available to reimburse 
the ``Departmental Offices--Salaries and Expenses'' account for 
expenses incurred in such account for reception and representation 
expenses to support activities of the Financial Action Task Force.
    Sec. 128.  Amounts in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Fund may 
be used for the acquisition of necessary land for, and construction of, 
a replacement currency production facility.
    Sec. 129.  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and the appropriate 
divisions of the Department of the Treasury shall submit to Congress a 
report on any Geographic Targeting Orders issued since 2016, 
including--
            (1) the type of data collected;
            (2) how the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network uses the 
        data;
            (3) whether the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network needs 
        more authority to combat money laundering through high-end real 
        estate;
            (4) how a record of beneficial ownership would improve and 
        assist law enforcement efforts to investigate and prosecute 
        criminal activity and prevent the use of shell companies to 
        facilitate money laundering, tax evasion, terrorism financing, 
        election fraud, and other illegal activity; and
            (5) the feasibility of implementing Geographic Targeting 
        Orders on a permanent basis on all real estate transactions in 
        the United States greater than $300,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
Appropriations Act, 2019''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                            The White House

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; and for necessary expenses of the 
Office of Policy Development, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the White 
House, $13,081,000, to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses:  Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice:  Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717:  Provided further, That 
each such amount that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and 
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts:  
Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare and submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after 
the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report setting forth 
the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence during 
the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official and 
ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount that 
has been reimbursed as of the date of the report:  Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking 
of expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive 
Residence that includes a standard for the classification of any such 
expense as political or nonpolitical:  Provided further, That no 
provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive 
Residence from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II 
of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d), $750,000, to 
remain available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution 
of safety and health issues, and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.

        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and the 
Homeland Security Council, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $11,800,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $100,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$12,800,000 shall remain available until expended for continued 
modernization of information resources within the Executive Office of 
the President.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, and to prepare and submit the budget of the 
United States Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, $101,000,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 
shall be available for official representation expenses:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of 
Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under 
the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.):  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be 
expended for the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of 
witnesses, except for testimony of officials of the Office of 
Management and Budget, before the Committees on Appropriations or their 
subcommittees:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for 
the altering of the annual work plan developed by the Corps of 
Engineers for submission to the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available for the Office of Management 
and Budget by this Act, no less than three full-time equivalent senior 
staff position shall be dedicated solely to the Office of the 
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be used, 
directly or indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, for 
evaluating or determining if water resource project or study reports 
submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through the Secretary of the 
Army are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and 
requirements relevant to the Civil Works water resource planning 
process:  Provided further, That the Office of Management and Budget 
shall have not more than 60 days in which to perform budgetary policy 
reviews of water resource matters on which the Chief of Engineers has 
reported:  Provided further, That the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall notify the appropriate authorizing and 
appropriating committees when the 60-day review is initiated:  Provided 
further, That if water resource reports have not been transmitted to 
the appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees within 15 days 
after the end of the Office of Management and Budget review period 
based on the notification from the Director, Congress shall assume 
Office of Management and Budget concurrence with the report and act 
accordingly.
    In addition, $2,000,000 for the Office of Information and 
Regulatory Affairs to hire additional personnel dedicated to regulatory 
review and reforms:  Provided, That these amounts shall be in addition 
to any other amounts available for such purpose:  Provided further, 
That these funds may not be used to backfill vacancies.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to 
exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
for participation in joint projects or in the provision of services on 
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, $18,400,000:  
Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, 
and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the Office.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $280,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2020, for drug control 
activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which 
not less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
than 120 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments in 
amounts determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy, of which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing 
services and associated activities:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 106-58, any unexpended 
funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2017 may be used for any other 
approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
requirements:  Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as of 
September 30, 2018, shall be funded at not less than the fiscal year 
2018 base level, unless the Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
justification for changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
priorities and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness:  Provided further, That the 
Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the initial 
allocation of fiscal year 2019 funding among HIDTAs not later than 45 
days after enactment of this Act, and shall notify the Committees of 
planned uses of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined in 
consultation with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds so transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein and upon 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, such amounts may be transferred back to 
this appropriation.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 
109-469), $117,327,000, to remain available until expended, which shall 
be available as follows: $99,000,000 for the Drug-Free Communities 
Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be made available as directed by 
section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 
U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for drug court training and technical 
assistance; $9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,577,000 for the 
United States membership dues to the World Anti-Doping Agency; and 
$1,250,000 shall be made available as directed by section 1105 of 
Public Law 109-469; and $3,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for activities authorized by section 103 of Public Law 114-
198:  Provided, That amounts made available under this heading may be 
transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to carry out such 
activities.

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2020.

              Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
efficient, secure, and effective uses of information technology in the 
Federal Government, $19,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may 
transfer these funds to one or more other agencies to carry out 
projects to meet these purposes.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,288,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:  Provided, That 
advances, repayments, or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the headings 
``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the White House'', 
``White House Repair and Restoration'', ``Council of Economic 
Advisers'', ``National Security Council and Homeland Security 
Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the 
President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such other officer 
as the President may designate in writing), may, with advance approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such appropriation 
to any other such appropriation, to be merged with and available for 
the same time and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred:  Provided, That the amount of an appropriation shall not 
be increased by more than 50 percent by such transfers:  Provided 
further, That no amount shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance 
to the President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice President'' 
without the approval of the Vice President.
    Sec. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2019, any Executive order or 
Presidential memorandum issued or revoked by the President shall be 
accompanied by a written statement from the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget on the budgetary impact, including costs, 
benefits, and revenues, of such order or memorandum.
    (b) Any such statement shall include--
            (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
        order or memorandum on the Federal Government;
            (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        and outlays as the result of such order or memorandum, listed 
        by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year period 
        beginning in fiscal year 2019; and
            (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government as the 
        result of such order or memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year 
        period beginning in fiscal year 2019.
    (c) If an Executive order or Presidential memorandum is issued 
during fiscal year 2019 due to a national emergency, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget may issue the statement required by 
subsection (a) not later than 15 days after the date that such order or 
memorandum is issued.
    (d) The requirement for cost estimates for Presidential memoranda 
shall only apply for Presidential memoranda estimated to have a 
regulatory cost in excess of $100,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the President 
Appropriations Act, 2019''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief 
Justice may approve, $84,703,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief justice and associate 
justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by 40 
U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,999,000, to remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary expenses 
of the court, as authorized by law, $32,016,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $19,450,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and employees of the 
Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically provided for, necessary 
expenses of the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning 
of uniforms for Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, as 
authorized by law, $5,154,461,000 (including the purchase of firearms 
and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall remain 
available until expended for space alteration projects and for 
furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of circuit and district judges 
(including judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
bankruptcy judges, and justices and judges retired from office or from 
regular active service.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-660), not to exceed 
$8,475,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to 
represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 3599, and for the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services for such representations as 
authorized by law; the compensation (in accordance with the maximums 
under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil actions 
for the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d)(1); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with certain judicial 
civil forfeiture proceedings; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 
4100(b); and for necessary training and general administrative 
expenses, $1,140,846,000 to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $49,750,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 
U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
provision of protective guard services for United States courthouses 
and other facilities housing Federal court operations, and the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security systems and 
equipment for United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
Federal court operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, perimeter 
security, basic security services provided by the Federal Protective 
Service, and other similar activities as authorized by section 1010 of 
the Judicial Improvement and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-
702), $604,460,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for 
administering the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent with 
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $92,413,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $29,819,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2020, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,500 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $18,548,000, of which 
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
with the procedures set forth in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services'' shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States:  Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304.  Section 3315(a) of title 40, United States Code, shall 
be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for ``executive'' each place it 
appears.
    Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States Marshals 
Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its Director may 
designate in consultation with the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts, for purposes of a pilot program, 
the security services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of 
Homeland Security to provide, except for the services specified in 40 
U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at these 
courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service rather 
than the Department of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the matter 
following paragraph 12--
            (1) in the second sentence (relating to the District of 
        Kansas), by striking ``27 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
        ``28 years and 6 months''; and
            (2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the District of 
        Hawaii), by striking ``24 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
        ``25 years and 6 months''.
    (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 
28 U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second sentence (relating to the 
eastern District of Missouri) by striking ``25 years and 6 months'' and 
inserting ``26 years and 6 months''.
    (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of Justice 
Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``16 years'' and 
        inserting ``17 years'';
            (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central 
        District of California), by striking ``15 years and 6 months'' 
        and inserting ``16 years and 6 months''; and
            (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western district 
        of North Carolina), by striking ``14 years'' and inserting ``15 
        years''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2019''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered 
by the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education:  Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized:  Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government shall maintain a dedicated account for 
the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal 
funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent 
appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and 
any interest earned in this or any fiscal year:  Provided further, That 
the account shall be under the control of the District of Columbia 
Chief Financial Officer, who shall use those funds solely for the 
purposes of carrying out the Resident Tuition Support Program:  
Provided further, That the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall 
provide a quarterly financial report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate for these 
funds showing, by object class, the expenditures made and the purpose 
therefor.

   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

    For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined by the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia in written consultation with the 
elected county or city officials of surrounding jurisdictions, 
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the costs of 
providing public safety at events related to the presence of the 
National Capital in the District of Columbia, including support 
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service in 
carrying out protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to respond to 
immediate and specific terrorist threats or attacks in the District of 
Columbia or surrounding jurisdictions.

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$244,939,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $13,379,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia, $121,251,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; for the 
District of Columbia Court System, $71,909,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; and 
$38,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, for capital 
improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities:  Provided, 
That funds made available for capital improvements shall be expended 
consistent with the District of Columbia Courts master plan study and 
facilities condition assessment:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies:  
Provided further, That 30 days after providing written notice to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, the District of Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than 
$9,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading among the items and 
entities funded under this heading:  Provided further, That the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia may, 
by regulation, establish a program substantially similar to the program 
set forth in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code, for employees of the District of Columbia Courts.

  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Court of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, or pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
litem representation, training, technical assistance, and such other 
services as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad litem 
representation, payments for counsel appointed in adoption proceedings 
under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, and payments 
authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to 
services provided under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$46,005,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided in this account may 
be transferred to and merged with funds made available under the 
heading ``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts,'' to be 
available for the same period and purposes as funds made available 
under that heading for capital improvements to District of Columbia 
courthouse facilities:  Provided further, That funds provided under 
this heading shall be administered by the Joint Committee on Judicial 
Administration in the District of Columbia:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, this appropriation shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
$256,724,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception 
and representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
Pretrial Services Agency programs, and of which not to exceed $25,000 
is for dues and assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 
2002:  Provided, That, of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$183,166,000 shall be for necessary expenses of Community Supervision 
and Sex Offender Registration, to include expenses relating to the 
supervision of adults subject to protection orders or the provision of 
services for or related to such persons, of which $5,919,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021 for costs associated with 
relocation under a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field 
offices, and related facilities:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $73,558,000 shall be available to the 
Pretrial Services Agency, of which $7,304,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021 for costs associated with relocation under a 
replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and related 
facilities:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly 
by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in 
the same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of 
other Federal agencies:  Provided further, That amounts under this 
heading may be used for programmatic incentives for defendants to 
successfully complete their terms of supervision.

  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, as 
authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $45,858,000, of which $4,471,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021 for costs associated with relocation 
under a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and 
related facilities:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly 
by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in 
the same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of 
Federal agencies.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 
$2,150,000, to remain available until expended, to support initiatives 
related to the coordination of Federal and local criminal justice 
resources in the District of Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 30, 
2020, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, $295,000, 
and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, $270,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in the 
District of Columbia, $52,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
for payments authorized under the Scholarship for Opportunity and 
Results Act (division C of Public Law 112-10):  Provided, That, to the 
extent that funds are available for opportunity scholarships and 
following the priorities included in section 3006 of such Act, the 
Secretary of Education shall make scholarships available to students 
eligible under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 
Stat. 211) including students who were not offered a scholarship during 
any previous school year:  Provided further, That within funds provided 
for opportunity scholarships up to $1,200,000 shall be for the 
activities specified in sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) of the Act and 
up to $500,000 shall be for the activities specified in section 3009 of 
the Act.

      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National Guard, 
$435,000, to remain available until expended for the Major General 
David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program.

         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the testing 
of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals with, human 
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the 
District of Columbia, $2,000,000.

                       District of Columbia Funds

    Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia for the 
current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the District of Columbia 
(``General Fund'') for programs and activities set forth under the 
heading ``part a--summary of expenses'' and at the rate set forth under 
such heading, as included in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request Act of 
2018 submitted to Congress by the District of Columbia, as amended as 
of the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, except as provided in section 450A of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-204.50a, D.C. Official 
Code), sections 816 and 817 of the Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-369.01 and 47-369.02, 
D.C. Official Code), and provisions of this Act, the total amount 
appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for the District of 
Columbia for fiscal year 2019 under this heading shall not exceed the 
estimates included in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 
submitted to Congress by the District of Columbia, as amended as of the 
date of enactment of this Act or the sum of the total revenues of the 
District of Columbia for such fiscal year:  Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated may be increased by proceeds of one-time 
transactions, which are expended for emergency or unanticipated 
operating or capital needs:  Provided further, That such increases 
shall be approved by enactment of local District law and shall comply 
with all reserve requirements contained in the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act:  Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of 
the District of Columbia shall take such steps as are necessary to 
assure that the District of Columbia meets these requirements, 
including the apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of the 
appropriations and funds made available to the District during fiscal 
year 2019, except that the Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram 
for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other 
obligations issued for capital projects.

 federal payment to the district of columbia water and sewer authority

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer 
Authority, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to continue 
implementation of the Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:  
Provided, That the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority 
provides a 100 percent match for this payment.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2019''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, of which not to exceed 
$1,000 is for official reception and representation expenses.

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases), in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $281,500,000, 
including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for 
consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign 
governmental and other regulatory officials, of which not less than 
$57,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, shall be for 
the purchase of information technology and of which not less than 
$3,302,509 shall be for expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
General:  Provided, That notwithstanding the limitations in 31 U.S.C. 
1553, amounts provided under this heading are available for the 
liquidation of obligations equal to current year payments on leases 
entered into prior to the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That for the purpose of recording and liquidating any lease 
obligations that should have been recorded and liquidated against 
accounts closed pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the 
preceding proviso, such amounts shall be transferred to and recorded in 
a no-year account in the Treasury, which has been established for the 
sole purpose of recording adjustments for and liquidating such unpaid 
obligations.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $4,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $126,000,000.

     administrative provisions--consumer product safety commission

    Sec. 501.  During fiscal year 2019, none of the amounts made 
available by this Act may be used to finalize or implement the Safety 
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles published by the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission in the Federal Register on November 
19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964) until after--
            (1) the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with 
        the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
        Department of Defense, completes a study to determine--
                    (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability 
                and vehicle handling requirements proposed by such 
                standard for purposes of reducing the risk of 
                Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle (referred to in this 
                section as ``ROV'') rollovers in the off-road 
                environment, including the repeatability and 
                reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
                requirements;
                    (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be 
                prevented if the proposed requirements were adopted;
                    (C) whether there is a technical basis for the 
                proposal to provide information on a point-of-sale 
                hangtag about a ROV's rollover resistance on a 
                progressive scale; and
                    (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the 
                United States military if the proposed requirements 
                were adopted; and
            (2) a report containing the results of the study completed 
        under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; 
                and
                    (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-252), $9,200,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be 
transferred to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for 
election reform activities authorized under the Help America Vote Act 
of 2002.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $333,118,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
$333,118,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed and collected 
pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2019 appropriation estimated at $0:  Provided further, That any 
offsetting collections received in excess of $333,118,000 in fiscal 
year 2019 shall not be available for obligation:  Provided further, 
That remaining offsetting collections from prior years collected in 
excess of the amount specified for collection in each such year and 
otherwise becoming available on October 1, 2018, shall not be available 
for obligation:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding system 
that may be retained and made available for obligation shall not exceed 
$130,284,000 for fiscal year 2019:  Provided further, That, of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, not less than $11,064,000 shall 
be for the salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General.

      administrative provisions--federal communications commission

    Sec. 510.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change 
its rules or regulations for universal service support payments to 
implement the February 27, 2004 recommendations of the Federal-State 
Joint Board on Universal Service regarding single connection or primary 
line restrictions on universal service support payments.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund or, only 
when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 shall be available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and including official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500) and rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
$26,200,000:  Provided, That public members of the Federal Service 
Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per diem in lieu of 
subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed 
intermittently in the Government service, and compensation as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-Federal 
participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $309,700,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $136,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $17,000,000 in offsetting collections 
derived from fees sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing 
Sales Rule, promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to 
this account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
than $156,700,000:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to implement 
subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund, shall be available for necessary expenses of real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for, 
including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation, and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings, including 
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $9,633,450,000, of which--
            (1) $1,080,068,000 shall remain available until expended 
        for construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
        expenses, and associated design and construction services) as 
        follows:
                    (A) $767,900,000 shall be for the Department of 
                Transportation Lease Purchase Option, Washington, 
                District of Columbia;
                    (B) $100,000,000 shall be for the DHS Consolidation 
                at St. Elizabeths, Washington, District of Columbia;
                    (C) $27,268,000 shall be for the Former Hardesty 
                Federal Complex, Kansas City, Missouri;
                    (D) $9,000,000 shall be for the Southeast Federal 
                Center Remediation, Washington, District of Columbia; 
                and
                    (E) $175,900,000 shall be for the Calexico West 
                Land Port of Entry, Calexico, California:
          Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
        construction and acquisition projects may be exceeded to the 
        extent that savings are effected in other such projects, but 
        not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts included in a 
        transmitted prospectus, if required, unless advance approval is 
        obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater 
        amount;
            (2) $890,419,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
        construction services, of which--
                    (A) $424,690,000 is for Major Repairs and 
                Alterations;
                    (B) $373,556,000 is for Basic Repairs and 
                Alterations; and
                    (C) $92,173,000 is for Special Emphasis Programs, 
                of which--
                            (i) $30,000,000 is for Fire and Life 
                        Safety;
                            (ii) $11,500,000 is for Judiciary Capital 
                        Security; and
                            (iii) $50,673,000 is for Consolidation 
                        Activities:  Provided, That consolidation 
                        projects result in reduced annual rent paid by 
                        the tenant agency:  Provided further, That no 
                        consolidation project exceed $10,000,000 in 
                        costs:  Provided further, That consolidation 
                        projects are approved by each of the committees 
                        specified in section 3307(a) of title 40, 
                        United States Code:  Provided further, That 
                        preference is given to consolidation projects 
                        that achieve a utilization rate of 130 usable 
                        square feet or less per person for office 
                        space:  Provided further, That the obligation 
                        of funds under this paragraph for consolidation 
                        activities may not be made until 10 days after 
                        a proposed spending plan and explanation for 
                        each project to be undertaken, including 
                        estimated savings, has been submitted to the 
                        Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives and the Senate:
          Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
        Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
        shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
        identified for each project, except each project in this or any 
        previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
        percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
        on Appropriations of a greater amount:  Provided further, That 
        additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully 
        approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
        approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations:  
        Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
        prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund 
        costs associated with implementing security improvements to 
        buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for security 
        in accordance with current law and in compliance with the 
        reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the 
        House and Senate:  Provided further, That the difference 
        between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects in 
        this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
        Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and 
        Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
        projects:  Provided further, That the amount provided in this 
        or any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used 
        to pay claims against the Government arising from any projects 
        under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund 
        authorized increases in prospectus projects;
            (3) $5,418,845,000 for rental of space to remain available 
        until expended; and
            (4) $2,244,118,000 for building operations to remain 
        available until expended:  Provided, That the total amount of 
        funds made available from this Fund to the General Services 
        Administration shall not be available for expenses of any 
        construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for 
        which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has not 
        been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for 
        each project for required expenses for the development of a 
        proposed prospectus:  Provided further, That funds available in 
        the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency 
        repairs when advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
        on Appropriations:  Provided further, That amounts necessary to 
        provide reimbursable special services to other agencies under 
        40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to provide such reimbursable 
        fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on 
        private or other property not in Government ownership or 
        control as may be appropriate to enable the United States 
        Secret Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 
        18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such revenues and 
        collections:  Provided further, That revenues and collections 
        and any other sums accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 
        2019, excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in 
        excess of the aggregate new obligational authority authorized 
        for Real Property Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund in 
        this Act shall remain in the Fund and shall not be available 
        for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, travel, motor vehicles, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,499,000.

                           operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; agency-wide 
policy direction, management, and communications; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000, of which not less than 
$26,890,000 is for Real and Personal Property Management and Disposal; 
and up to $22,550,000 is for the Office of the Administrator, of which 
not to exceed $7,500 is for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                   civilian board of contract appeals

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for the 
activities associated with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, 
$9,301,000.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000:  Provided, That not 
to exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.
    In addition to the foregoing appropriation, $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be transferred to the Council of the 
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency for enhancements to 
www.oversight.gov:  Provided, That these amounts shall be in addition 
to any other amounts available to the Council of the Inspectors General 
on Integrity and Efficiency for such purpose.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $4,796,000.

                     federal citizen services fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Products and Programs, 
including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604; and 
for necessary expenses in support of interagency projects that enable 
the Federal Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities 
electronically, through the development and implementation of 
innovative uses of information technology; $55,000,000, to be deposited 
into the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided, That the previous 
amount may be transferred to Federal agencies to carry out the purpose 
of the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided further, That the 
appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available until expended for necessary expenses 
of Federal Citizen Services and other activities that enable the 
Federal Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities 
electronically in the aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:  
Provided further, That appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, and 
collections accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019 in excess of 
such amount shall remain in the Fund and shall not be available for 
expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, That the transfer authorities provided herein shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.

                Asset Proceeds and Space Management Fund

    For carrying out the purposes of the Federal Assets Sale and 
Transfer Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-287), $15,500,000, to be deposited 
into the Asset Proceeds and Space Management Fund, to remain available 
until expended.

                 environmental review improvement fund

    For necessary expenses of the Environmental Review Improvement Fund 
established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m-8(d), $6,070,000, to remain 
available until expended.

       administrative provisions--general services administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 520.  Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 521.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2019 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements:  Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 522.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, funds made 
available by this Act shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2020 
request for United States Courthouse construction only if the request: 
(1) meets the design guide standards for construction as established 
and approved by the General Services Administration, the Judicial 
Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management and 
Budget; (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved Courthouse Project Priorities 
plan; and (3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization study of 
each facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in consideration of the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 524.  From funds made available under the heading Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue, claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings 
effected in other construction projects with prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 525.  In any case in which the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting 
lease authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration under 40 U.S.C. 
3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the delineated area of 
procurement is identical to the delineated area included in the 
prospectus for all lease agreements, except that, if the Administrator 
determines that the delineated area of the procurement should not be 
identical to the delineated area included in the prospectus, the 
Administrator shall provide an explanatory statement to each of such 
committees and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to exercising any lease authority 
provided in the resolution.
    Sec. 526.  With respect to each project funded under the heading 
``Major Repairs and Alterations'' or ``Judiciary Capital Security 
Program'', and with respect to E-Government projects funded under the 
heading ``Federal Citizen Services Fund'', the Administrator of General 
Services shall submit a spending plan and explanation for each project 
to be undertaken to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                         salaries and expenses

    For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation Trust 
Fund, established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and the Whistleblower Protection 
Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct procurement of 
survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $44,490,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020, and in addition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, for administrative expenses to 
adjudicate retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit 
Systems Protection Board.

            Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

            morris k. udall and stewart l. udall trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, 
pursuant to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation Act (20 
U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $1,875,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which, notwithstanding sections 8 and 9 of such Act: (1) up to 
$50,000 shall be used to conduct financial audits pursuant to the 
Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289); and (2) 
up to $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out the activities 
authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102-259 and section 817(a) of 
Public Law 106-568 (20 U.S.C. 5604(7)):  Provided, That of the total 
amount made available under this heading $200,000 shall be transferred 
to the Office of Inspector General of the Department of the Interior, 
to remain available until expended, for audits and investigations of 
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, consistent with 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

                 environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and Records Administration and archived Federal 
records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, the 
activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
operations and maintenance of the electronic records archives, the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, 
and cleaning, $375,105,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act of 
2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,801,000.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

         national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

               community development revolving loan fund

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2020, for technical assistance to low-
income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the 
Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading on Congressional 
Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $16,439,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $132,172,000:  Provided, 
That of the total amount made available under this heading, not to 
exceed $14,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020, for 
information technology infrastructure modernization and Trust Fund 
Federal Financial System migration or modernization, and shall be in 
addition to funds otherwise made available for such purposes:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount made available under this heading, 
$639,018 may be made available for strengthening the capacity and 
capabilities of the acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office of 
Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), 
including the recruitment, hiring, training, and retention of such 
workforce and information technology in support of acquisition 
workforce effectiveness or for management solutions to improve 
acquisition management; and in addition $133,483,000 for administrative 
expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of OPM 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs:  Provided 
further, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the 
authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 
8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 
5, United States Code:  Provided further, That no part of this 
appropriation shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal 
Examining Unit of OPM established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose:  Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during fiscal year 2019, accept donations of money, property, and 
personal services:  Provided further, That such donations, including 
those from prior years, may be used for the development of publicity 
materials to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of 
travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed $25,265,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General:  Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12) as amended by Public Law 
107-304, the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public 
Law 112-199), and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment 
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $26,535,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission in 
carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $15,200,000, to be derived by 
transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by 
section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,658,302,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which not less than $15,206,269 shall be for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which not to exceed $75,000 shall be available 
for a permanent secretariat for the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions; and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the 
Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, 
members of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
securities matters, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and 
foreign invitees in attendance including: (1) incidental expenses such 
as meals; (2) travel and transportation; and (3) related lodging or 
subsistence; and of which not less than $75,081,000 shall be for the 
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis.
    In addition to the foregoing appropriation, for costs associated 
with relocation under a replacement lease for the Commission's New York 
regional office facilities, not to exceed $37,188,942, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That for purposes of calculating 
the fee rate under section 31(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2019, all amounts appropriated 
under this heading shall be deemed to be the regular appropriation to 
the Commission for fiscal year 2019:  Provided further, That fees and 
charges authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections:  Provided further, That not to exceed $1,658,302,000 of 
such offsetting collections shall be available until expended for 
necessary expenses of this account and not to exceed $37,188,942 of 
such offsetting collections shall be available until expended for costs 
under this heading associated with relocation under a replacement lease 
for the Commission's New York regional office facilities:  Provided 
further, That the total amount appropriated under this heading from the 
general fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced as such offsetting 
fees are received so as to result in a final total fiscal year 2019 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That if any amount of the appropriation for costs 
associated with relocation under a replacement lease for the 
Commission's New York regional office facilities is subsequently de-
obligated by the Commission, such amount that was derived from the 
general fund shall be returned to the general fund, and such amounts 
that were derived from fees or assessments collected for such purpose 
shall be paid to each national securities exchange and national 
securities association, respectively, in proportion to any fees or 
assessments paid by such national securities exchange or national 
securities association under section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal year 2019.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$750 for official reception and representation expenses; $26,000,000:  
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever the 
President deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national 
defense:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
person into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of title 31, United States Code, 
and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $267,500,000, of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be 
available for examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight 
activities:  Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge 
fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small Business 
Administration, and certain loan program activities, including fees 
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Business Act:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from 
all such activities shall be credited to this account, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriations:  Provided further, That the Small Business 
Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance with section 132(a) 
of division K of Public Law 108-447, during fiscal year 2019:  Provided 
further, That $6,100,000 shall be available for the Loan Modernization 
and Accounting System, to be available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided further, That $3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State 
Technology Partnership Program under section 34 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 657d).

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For necessary expenses of programs supporting entrepreneurial and 
small business development, $241,600,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That $130,000,000 shall be available to 
fund grants for performance in fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year 2020 as 
authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act:  Provided further, 
That $31,000,000 shall be for marketing, management, and technical 
assistance under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make microloans under the microloan 
program:  Provided further, That $18,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to States to carry out export programs that assist small 
business concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$21,900,000.

                           office of advocacy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in carrying out 
the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et 
seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.), $9,120,000, to remain available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That subject to section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019 
commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $7,500,000,000:  Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2019 commitments for general business 
loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 for a combination of amortizing term loans and 
the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by revolving loans:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019 commitments for loans 
authorized under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of The Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed 
$7,500,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019 
commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
$4,000,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019, 
guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the 
Small Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of 
$12,000,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $155,150,000, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

        administrative provisions--small business administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 530.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available to the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be provided to a company--
            (1) that is headquarted in the People's Republic of China; 
        or
            (2) for which more than 25 percent of the voting stock of 
        the company is owned by affiliates that are citizens of the 
        People's Republic of China.
    Sec. 532.  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Small Business Administration shall conduct a study on 
whether the provision of matchmaking services that, using data 
collected through outside entities such as local chambers of commerce, 
link veteran entrepreneurs to business leads in given industry sectors 
or geographic regions, would enhance the existing veterans 
entrepreneurship programs of the Administration.
    Sec. 533.  The Administrator of the Small Business Administration 
shall--
            (1) work with Federal agencies to review each Office of 
        Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization's efforts to 
        comply with the requirements under section 15(k) of the Small 
        Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)); and
            (2) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
        Entrepreneurship and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Small Business and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives--
                    (A) a report on Federal agency compliance with the 
                requirements under such section 15(k); and
                    (B) a report detailing the status of issuance by 
                the Small Business Administration of detailed guidance 
                for the peer review process of the Small Business 
                Procurement Advisory Council in order to facilitate a 
                more in depth review of Federal agency compliance with 
                the requirements under such section 15(k).

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $55,235,000:  Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free:  
Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
continue at not less than the 1983 level:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be 
used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any 
officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or 
close small rural and other small post offices.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund 
and expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal 
Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,515,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or activity 
for which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) 
proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee 
on Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the Senate 
for a different purpose; (5) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; 
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 
10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities unless prior approval is received from the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided, That prior to any significant reorganization or 
restructuring of offices, programs, or activities, each agency or 
entity funded in this Act shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided further, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate to establish the baseline for 
application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That at a minimum the report shall 
include: (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
display the President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, 
adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal 
year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for each 
appropriation both by object class and program, project, and activity 
as detailed in the budget appendix for the respective appropriation; 
and (3) an identification of items of special congressional interest:  
Provided further, That the amount appropriated or limited for salaries 
and expenses for an agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for 
each day after the required date that the report has not been submitted 
to the Congress.
    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2019 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2020, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds:  Provided 
further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used by the Executive Office of the President to request--
            (1) any official background investigation report on any 
        individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
        organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
        501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or the 
        Internal Revenue Service.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
            (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
        report, if such individual has given express written consent 
        for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
        such request and during the same presidential administration; 
        or
            (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under chapter 
15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply with respect to a 
contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program 
established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefits program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not 
apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United States 
Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in section 103 of title 
41, United States Code).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United States 
Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or commission 
funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that agency, nor may such 
agency or commission accept, payment or reimbursement from a non-
Federal entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the 
purpose of enabling an officer or employee to attend and participate in 
any meeting or similar function relating to the official duties of the 
officer or employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement 
is a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, or represents a person or entity subject to regulation by 
such agency or commission, unless the person or entity is an 
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds made 
available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act may be used 
for the interagency funding and sponsorship of a joint advisory 
committee to advise on emerging regulatory issues.
    Sec. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise authorized to enter into 
contracts for either leases or the construction or alteration of real 
property for office, meeting, storage, or other space must consult with 
the General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation for 
offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in the case of 
succeeding leases, before entering into negotiations with the current 
lessor.
    (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an emergency lease 
may do so during any period declared by the President to require 
emergency leasing authority with respect to such agency.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency 
covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency provided funds by this 
Act, but does not include the General Services Administration or the 
United States Postal Service.
    Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following activities 
the amounts required under current law:
            (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
            (2) Payments to--
                    (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 377(o));
                    (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 376(c)); and
                    (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims 
                Judges' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
            (3) Payment of Government contributions--
                    (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
                employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
                United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
                    (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
                employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. 
                ch. 87).
            (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
        increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
        and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
            (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
        provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any amount 
appropriated by this section from any otherwise applicable limitation 
on the use of funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 620.  In addition to amounts made available in prior fiscal 
years, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (Board) shall have 
authority to obligate funds for the scholarship program established by 
section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
204) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of funds collected 
by the Board between January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, including 
accrued interest, as a result of the assessment of monetary penalties. 
Funds available for obligation in fiscal year 2019 shall remain 
available until expended.
    Sec. 621.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Federal Trade Commission to complete the draft report entitled 
``Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children: Preliminary 
Proposed Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-Regulatory 
Efforts'' unless the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to 
Children complies with Executive Order No. 13563.
    Sec. 622.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management to award a contract, 
enter an extension of, or exercise an option on a contract to a 
contractor conducting the final quality review processes for background 
investigation fieldwork services or background investigation support 
services that, as of the date of the award of the contract, are being 
conducted by that contractor.
    Sec. 623. (a) The head of each executive branch agency funded by 
this Act shall ensure that the Chief Information Officer of the agency 
has the authority to participate in decisions regarding the budget 
planning process related to information technology.
    (b) Amounts appropriated for any executive branch agency funded by 
this Act that are available for information technology shall be 
allocated within the agency, consistent with the provisions of 
appropriations Acts and budget guidelines and recommendations from the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in such manner as 
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Information Officer of the 
agency in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of the agency 
and budget officials.
    Sec. 624.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 625.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by a provider of 
electronic communication service to the public or remote computing 
service of the contents of a wire or electronic communication that is 
in electronic storage with the provider (as such terms are defined in 
sections 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States Code) in a manner 
that violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States.
    Sec. 626.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change 
the rules or regulations of the Commission for universal service high-
cost support for competitive eligible telecommunications carriers in a 
way that is inconsistent with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section 
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on July 
15, 2015:  Provided, That this section shall not prohibit the 
Commission from considering, developing, or adopting other support 
mechanisms as an alternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
    Sec. 627.  No funds provided in this Act shall be used to deny an 
Inspector General funded under this Act timely access to any records, 
documents, or other materials available to the department or agency 
over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, or to prevent or impede that Inspector 
General's access to such records, documents, or other materials, under 
any provision of law, except a provision of law that expressly refers 
to the Inspector General and expressly limits the Inspector General's 
right of access. A department or agency covered by this section shall 
provide its Inspector General with access to all such records, 
documents, and other materials in a timely manner. Each Inspector 
General shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on 
disclosure relevant to the information provided by the establishment 
over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
Inspector General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General covered by this 
section shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures 
to comply with this requirement.
    Sec. 628. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, adjudication activities, or other law enforcement- or 
victim assistance-related activity.
    Sec. 629.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue, or 
implement any rule, regulation, or order regarding the disclosure of 
political contributions, contributions to tax exempt organizations, or 
dues paid to trade associations.
    Sec. 630.  None of the funds appropriated or other-wise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for 
contractors whose performance has been judged to be below satisfactory, 
behind schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet the basic 
requirements of a contract, unless the Agency determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program and unless such awards or incentive fees are consistent 
with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
    Sec. 631. (a) None of the funds made available under this Act may 
be used to pay for travel and conference activities that result in a 
total cost to an Executive branch department, agency, board or 
commission of more than $500,000 at any single conference unless the 
head of the Executive branch department, agency, board, or commission 
determines that such attendance is in the national interest and advance 
notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that includes the basis of that 
determination.
    (b) None of the funds made available under this Act may be used to 
pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 employees, who are 
stationed in the United States, at any single conference occurring 
outside the United States unless the head of the Executive branch 
department, agency, board, or commission determines that such 
attendance is in the national interest and advance notice is 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that includes the basis of that 
determination.
    Sec. 632. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by departments and agencies funded 
in this Act to acquire telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei 
Technologies Company, ZTE Corporation or a high-impact or moderate-
impact information system, as defined for security categorization in 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal 
Information Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for 
Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
        acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
        information systems within the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted an 
        assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
        associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
        risk associated with such system being produced, manufactured, 
        or assembled by one or more entities identified by the United 
        States Government as posing a cyber threat, including but not 
        limited to, those that may be owned, directed, or subsidized by 
        the People's Republic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
        the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or the Russian 
        Federation.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless 
the head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks;
            (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system is 
        in the vital national security interest of the United States; 
        and
            (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        in a manner that identifies the system intended for acquisition 
        and a detailed description of the mitigation strategies 
        identified in (1), provided that such report may include a 
        classified annex as necessary.
    Sec. 633.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used for airline accommodations for any officer (as defined in section 
2104 of title 5, United States Code) or employee (as defined in section 
2105 of title 5, United States Code) in the executive branch that are 
not coach-class accommodations (which term is defined, for purposes of 
this section, as the basic class of accommodation by airlines that is 
normally the lowest fare offered regardless of airline terminology 
used, and (as referred to by airlines) may include tourist class or 
economy class, as well as single class when the airline offers only one 
class of accommodations to all travelers), unless such accommodations 
are consistent with section 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal 
Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act) and, 
with respect to subsection (a)(3) and (b)(2) of such section, written 
authorization is provided by the head of the agency (or, if the 
accommodations are for the head of the agency, by the Inspector General 
of the agency).
    Sec. 634.  The Comptroller General of the United States, in 
consultation with relevant regulators, shall conduct a study that--
            (1) examines the financial impact of the mineral pyrrhotite 
        in concrete home foundations; and
            (2) provides recommendations on regulatory and legislative 
        actions needed to help mitigate the financial impact described 
        in paragraph (1) on banks, mortgage lenders, tax revenues, and 
        homeowners.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2019 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States Code, for the purchase of 
any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law 
enforcement vehicles, protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance 
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except station wagons for which 
the maximum shall be $19,997:  Provided, That these limits may be 
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type vehicles:  Provided 
further, That the limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded 
by more than 5 percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for 
demonstration under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle 
Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976:  Provided 
further, That the limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by 
the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles acquired 
pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles:  Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section shall not apply to any vehicle that is a 
commercial item and which operates on alternative fuel, including but 
not limited to electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicles.
    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified in law during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States (including any agency 
the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence and is seeking 
citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who 
is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 
8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to become a 
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when eligible; or (4) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States:  Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be 
considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
with respect to his or her status are being complied with:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such affidavits 
shall be submitted prior to employment and updated thereafter as 
necessary:  Provided further, That any person making a false affidavit 
shall be guilty of a felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no 
more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both:  
Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to, 
and not in substitution for, any other provisions of existing law:  
Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or employee 
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in 
action by the Federal Government:  Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any person who is an officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act, 
or to international broadcasters employed by the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, or to temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of 
emergencies:  Provided further, That this section does not apply to the 
employment as Wildland firefighters for not more than 120 days of 
nonresident aliens employed by the Department of the Interior or the 
USDA Forest Service pursuant to an agreement with another country.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13693 
        (March 19, 2015), including any such programs adopted prior to 
        the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available:  Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved 
pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710.  During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Federal 
Government appointed by the President of the United States, holds 
office, no funds may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to 
furnish or redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, 
officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate. For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``office'' shall include the entire suite of offices 
assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used primarily 
by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
individual.
    Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
provided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
    Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any department, agency, or other 
instrumentality of the Federal Government to pay the salaries or 
expenses of any individual appointed to a position of a confidential or 
policy-determining character that is excepted from the competitive 
service under section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to 
schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing such schedule C individual certifies to 
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management that the schedule C 
position occupied by the individual was not created solely or primarily 
in order to detail the individual to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed forces detailed to or from an element 
of the intelligence community (as that term is defined under section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
    Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 715.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, 
or film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing, 
telephone or electronic mailing lists to any person or any organization 
outside of the Federal Government without the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private 
contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not heretofore authorized by Congress.
    Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
        105; and
            (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
        section 102 of such title, the United States Postal Service, 
        and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest 
effort and a reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Federal 
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of FASAB administrative costs.
    Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, including rebates 
from charge card and other contracts:  Provided, That these funds shall 
be administered by the Administrator of General Services to support 
Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, including improving coordination and reducing 
duplication, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
agency groups designated by the Director (including the President's 
Management Council for overall management improvement initiatives, the 
Chief Financial Officers Council for financial management initiatives, 
the Chief Information Officers Council for information technology 
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for procurement 
initiatives, and the Performance Improvement Council for performance 
improvement initiatives):  Provided further, That the total funds 
transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve 
coordination, reduce duplication, and for other activities related to 
Federal Government Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C. 1120, and 
not to exceed $17,000,000 for Government-Wide innovations, initiatives, 
and activities:  Provided further, That the funds transferred to or for 
reimbursement of ``General Services Administration, Government-wide 
Policy'' during fiscal year 2019 shall remain available for obligation 
through September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That such transfers or 
reimbursements may only be made after 15 days following notification of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of specific 
projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to carry out the 
purposes of the National Science and Technology Council (authorized by 
Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple Federal departments, 
agencies, or entities:  Provided, That the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science and 
Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall comply with any 
relevant requirements in part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal 
Regulations:  Provided, That this section shall apply to direct 
payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State receiving 
Federal funds.
    Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
        derived from any means, that includes any personally 
        identifiable information relating to an individual's access to 
        or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the agency; 
        or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
        includes any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental Internet 
        site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
        site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet site 
        services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
        provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
        and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.
    Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 727.  The United States is committed to ensuring the health of 
its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, and supports the 
strict adherence to anti-doping in sport through testing, adjudication, 
education, and research as performed by nationally recognized oversight 
authorities.
    Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and agencies 
may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce restrictions or 
limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Program, or to 
implement the proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel 
Management to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 
5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal 
Register, volume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the 
detail of executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use 
of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for 
training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 731.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act may be used by an executive 
branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story intended for 
broadcast or distribution in the United States, unless the story 
includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.
    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and regulations implementing that 
section.
    Sec. 733. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used for any 
Federal Government contract with any foreign incorporated entity which 
is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under section 835(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary 
of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
        with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
        authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
        the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 734.  During fiscal year 2019, for each employee who--
            (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
        title 5, United States Code; or
            (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
        chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a payment 
        as an incentive to separate, the separating agency shall remit 
        to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to the Office of Personnel Management's average unit cost 
        of processing a retirement claim for the preceding fiscal year. 
        Such amounts shall be available until expended to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and shall be deemed to be an 
        administrative expense under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
    Sec. 735. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to recommend or require any entity submitting an offer 
for a Federal contract to disclose any of the following information as 
a condition of submitting the offer:
            (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
        independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering 
        communication that is made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a 
        candidate for election for Federal office or to a political 
        committee, or that is otherwise made with respect to any 
        election for Federal office.
            (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
        described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
        person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
        person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', ``electioneering 
communication'', ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``Federal office'' 
has the meaning given such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or 
employee of the Federal government, including the President, the Vice 
President, a member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident 
Commissioner to Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as 
defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of 
an office of the legislative branch.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2019, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
        fiscal years until the normal effective date of the applicable 
        wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 
        2019, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable for the 
        applicable grade and step of the applicable wage schedule in 
        accordance with such section; and
            (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2019, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
        more than the sum of--
                    (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (ii) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2019 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in the previous fiscal year under such 
                section.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which paragraph (1) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
    (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this subsection and who is paid from a 
schedule not in existence on September 30, 2018, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this subsection may not be changed from 
the rates in effect on September 30, 2018, except to the extent 
determined by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with 
the purpose of this subsection.
    (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 2018.
    (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this subsection 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this subsection at a 
rate in excess of the rate that would be payable were this subsection 
not in effect.
    (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this subsection if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 
2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be--
            (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
        the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
        pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
        5304 of title 5, United States Code:  Provided, That prevailing 
        rate employees at locations where there are no employees whose 
        pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, and prevailing rate employees described in 
        section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
        considered to be located in the pay locality designated as 
        ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for purposes of this subsection; and
            (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
        pay period beginning after September 30, 2018.
    Sec. 738. (a) The Vice President may not receive a pay raise in 
calendar year 2019, notwithstanding the rate adjustment made under 
section 104 of title 3, United States Code, or any other provision of 
law.
    (b) An employee serving in an Executive Schedule position, or in a 
position for which the rate of pay is fixed by statute at an Executive 
Schedule rate, may not receive a pay rate increase in calendar year 
2019, notwithstanding schedule adjustments made under section 5318 of 
title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, except as 
provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection applies only 
to employees who are holding a position under a political appointment.
    (c) A chief of mission or ambassador at large may not receive a pay 
rate increase in calendar year 2019, notwithstanding section 401 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) or any other provision 
of law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i).
    (d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, United 
States Code, a pay rate increase may not be received in calendar year 
2019 (except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i)) by--
            (1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service 
        paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule; or
            (2) a limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee 
        in the Senior Executive Service serving under a political 
        appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV 
        of the Executive Schedule.
    (e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay (including any locality-
based payments under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, or 
similar authority) at or above level IV of the Executive Schedule who 
serves under a political appointment may not receive a pay rate 
increase in calendar year 2019, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection 
does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay system or the 
Foreign Service pay system, or to employees appointed under section 
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to employees in another pay 
system whose position would be classified at GS-15 or below if chapter 
51 of title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
    (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent employees 
who do not serve under a political appointment from receiving pay 
increases as otherwise provided under applicable law.
    (g) A career appointee in the Senior Executive Service who receives 
a Presidential appointment and who makes an election to retain Senior 
Executive Service basic pay entitlements under section 3392 of title 5, 
United States Code, is not subject to this section.
    (h) A member of the Senior Foreign Service who receives a 
Presidential appointment to any position in the executive branch and 
who makes an election to retain Senior Foreign Service pay entitlements 
under section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-
465) is not subject to this section.
    (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an employee in a 
covered position may receive a pay rate increase upon an authorized 
movement to a different covered position with higher-level duties and a 
pre-established higher level or range of pay, except that any such 
increase must be based on the rates of pay and applicable pay 
limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
    (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an individual 
who is newly appointed to a covered position during the period of time 
subject to this section, the initial pay rate shall be based on the 
rates of pay and applicable pay limitations in effect on December 31, 
2013.
    (k) If an employee affected by subsections (b) through (e) is 
subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar year 2019 but 
ends in calendar year 2020, the bar on the employee's receipt of pay 
rate increases shall apply through the end of that pay period.
    Sec. 739. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act shall submit annual reports to the Inspector General or senior 
ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General, regarding 
the costs and contracting procedures related to each conference held by 
any such department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal 
year 2019 for which the cost to the United States Government was more 
than $100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Within 15 days after the end of a quarter, the head of any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office shall notify the 
Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity without an 
Inspector General, of the date, location, and number of employees 
attending a conference held by any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act during fiscal year 2019 for which the cost to the United States 
Government was more than $20,000.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this or 
any other appropriations Act may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a conference described in subsection (c) that is 
not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the 
grant or contract was awarded, such as a conference held in connection 
with planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities 
that are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget 
Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revisions to 
that memorandum.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce 
funding for a program, project, or activity as proposed in the 
President's budget request for a fiscal year until such proposed change 
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation Act, or unless such change 
is made pursuant to the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or 
any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 741.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or apply the rule 
entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the Office of Personnel 
Management in the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 
20180 et seq.).
    Sec. 742.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to begin or announce a 
study or public-private competition regarding the conversion to 
contractor performance of any function performed by Federal employees 
pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any other 
administrative regulation, directive, or policy.
    Sec. 743. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be available for a contract, 
grant, or cooperative agreement with an entity that requires employees 
or contractors of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse 
to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting 
or otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully 
reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or 
law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other 
form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the 
nondisclosure of classified information.
    Sec. 744. (a) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 
4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or 
agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These provisions are consistent with and do not 
supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order 
relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, 
(3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, 
rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse 
of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'':  Provided, 
That notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, a 
nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United 
States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress, or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be implemented and 
enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it complies with the 
requirements for such agreement that were in effect when the agreement 
was entered into.
    (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
implement or enforce any agreement entered into during fiscal year 2014 
which does not contain substantially similar language to that required 
in subsection (a).
    Sec. 745.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax 
liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and 
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is 
not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a Federal 
agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and 
has made a determination that this further action is not necessary to 
protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 746.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony 
criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless a 
Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the 
corporation and has made a determination that this further action is 
not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 747. (a) During fiscal year 2019, on the date on which a 
request is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such request.
    (b) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
available on the Bureau's public Web site.
    Sec. 748.  If, for fiscal year 2019, new budget authority provided 
in appropriations Acts exceeds the discretionary spending limit for any 
category set forth in section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 due to estimating differences 
with the Congressional Budget Office, an adjustment to the 
discretionary spending limit in such category for fiscal year 2019 
shall be made by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in 
the amount of the excess but the total of all such adjustments shall 
not exceed 0.2 percent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary 
spending limits for all categories for that fiscal year.
    Sec. 749. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for employees 
under the statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 2019 
under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an increase 
of 1.4 percent, and the overall average percentage of the adjustments 
taking effect in such fiscal year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such 
title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent (with comparability 
payments to be determined and allocated among pay localities by the 
President). All adjustments under this subsection shall be effective as 
of the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or 
after January 1, 2019.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 737, the adjustment in rates of basic 
pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 2019 
under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
no less than the percentages in subsection (a) as employees in the same 
location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the 
statutory pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and 5304a of title 5, 
United States Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations where there 
are no employees whose pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303, 
5304, and 5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate employees described 
in section 5343(a)(5) of such title 5 shall be considered to be located 
in the pay locality designated as "Rest of U.S." pursuant to section 
5304 of such title 5 for purposes of this subsection.
    (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations, which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 750.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any title other than title IV or VIII shall 
not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government.
    Sec. 802.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
used for publicity or propaganda purposes or implementation of any 
policy including boycott designed to support or defeat legislation 
pending before Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this Act to 
the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2019, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditures 
for an agency through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
        center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
        limited or increased under this Act;
            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        program, project, or responsibility center for which funds have 
        been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
        deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
        excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
        specific program, project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to approve 
and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of local funds under 
this title through November 7, 2019.
    Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available by this Act or by any other Act may be used to 
provide any officer or employee of the District of Columbia with an 
official vehicle unless the officer or employee uses the vehicle only 
in the performance of the officer's or employee's official duties. For 
purposes of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not include 
travel between the officer's or employee's residence and workplace, 
except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
        Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
        employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical 
        Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
        is on call 24 hours a day;
            (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
        Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of Columbia 
        Department of Corrections who resides in the District of 
        Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
            (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
        officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner 
        who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours 
        a day;
            (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
        Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
        employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
        Agency who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 
        24 hours a day;
            (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
            (7) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
        Columbia.
    Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or any other 
officer or entity of the District government to provide assistance for 
any petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia Attorney 
General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or 
from consulting with officials of the District government regarding 
such lawsuits.
    Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may be 
used to distribute any needle or syringe for the purpose of preventing 
the spread of blood borne pathogens in any location that has been 
determined by the local public health or local law enforcement 
authorities to be inappropriate for such distribution.
    Sec. 808.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent the 
Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from addressing the issue 
of the provision of contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, 
but it is the intent of Congress that any legislation enacted on such 
issue should include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions 
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize 
or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or 
distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols 
derivative.
    (b) No funds available for obligation or expenditure by the 
District of Columbia government under any authority may be used to 
enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce 
penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any 
schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 
et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational 
purposes.
    Sec. 810.  No funds available for obligation or expenditure by the 
District of Columbia government under any authority shall be expended 
for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council of the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget in the format of the budget that 
the District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia government for 
fiscal year 2019 that is in the total amount of the approved 
appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data for personal services 
and other-than-personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual 
expenditures.
    (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia certifies that a 
reallocation is required to address unanticipated changes in program 
requirements.
    Sec. 812.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council for the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for the District of Columbia Public 
Schools that aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the budget that the 
District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42).
    Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating funds 
may be transferred to the District of Columbia's enterprise and capital 
funds and such amounts, once transferred, shall retain appropriation 
authority consistent with the provisions of this Act.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to reprogram 
or transfer for operating expenses any local funds transferred or 
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal years from operating 
funds to capital funds, and such amounts, once transferred or 
reprogrammed, shall retain appropriation authority consistent with the 
provisions of this Act.
    (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.
    Sec. 815.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or 
under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropriations 
of Federal funds made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 2019 in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
2020, for each such account for the purposes authorized:  Provided, 
That a request shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to 
the expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests 
shall be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines outlined in 
section 803 of this Act.
    Sec. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2020, during a period in which 
neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution or a regular 
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in effect, local funds are 
appropriated in the amount provided for any project or activity for 
which local funds are provided in the Act referred to in paragraph (2) 
(subject to any modifications enacted by the District of Columbia as of 
the beginning of the period during which this subsection is in effect) 
at the rate set forth by such Act.
    (2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is the Act of the Council 
of the District of Columbia pursuant to which a proposed budget is 
approved for fiscal year 2020 which (subject to the requirements of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local portion 
of the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for fiscal 
year 2020 for purposes of section 446 of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (sec. 1-204.46, D.C. Official Code).
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
available--
            (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
        continuing resolution for fiscal year 2020 is in effect; or
            (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
        Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2020.
    (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under this Act and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by 
this Act.
    (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or activity 
during the portion of fiscal year 2020 for which this section applies 
to such project or activity.
    (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity during 
any period of fiscal year 2020 if any other provision of law (other 
than an authorization of appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
        grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
        such period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
        be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period.
    (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
obligations of the government of the District of Columbia mandated by 
other law.
    Sec. 817.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this title or in title IV shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this title or of title IV.
    This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2019''.

       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Processing, Research, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $46,532,000, 
of which not to exceed $5,051,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $800,000 shall be available for 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development:  
Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
Rural Development mission area for salaries and expenses are available 
to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office; not to 
exceed $1,496,000 shall be available for the Office of Homeland 
Security; not to exceed $4,711,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Partnerships and Public Engagement; not to exceed $23,105,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, 
of which $22,301,000 shall be available for Departmental Administration 
to provide for necessary expenses for management support services to 
offices of the Department and for general administration, security, 
repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses 
not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and 
efficient work of the Department:  Provided further, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Administration mission area 
for salaries and expenses are available to fund up to one 
administrative support staff for the Office; not to exceed $3,869,000 
shall be available for the Office of Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded by this Act, 
including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison 
within the executive branch; and not to exceed $7,500,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Communications:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to transfer funds appropriated 
for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of 
the Office of the Secretary:  Provided further, That no appropriation 
for any office shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $11,000 of the amount made 
available under this paragraph for the immediate Office of the 
Secretary shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided further, That the amount made available under this heading for 
Departmental Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable 
appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding 
of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  Provided further, That 
funds made available under this heading for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain personnel 
at the agency level:  Provided further, That no funds made available 
under this heading for the Office of Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations may be obligated after 30 days from the date of 
enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation of these 
funds by USDA agency.

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$19,786,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155.

                     office of hearings and appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, 
$15,222,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $9,525,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $63,950,000, of which not less than $38,000,000 is for 
cybersecurity requirements of the department.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $6,028,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $901,000:  Provided, That funds made available by this 
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission area for salaries and 
expenses are available to fund up to one administrative support staff 
for the Office.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $24,206,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $58,330,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,503,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials Management 
may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978 
(Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000, including such sums as 
may be necessary for contracting and other arrangements with public 
agencies and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), and 
including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended under the 
direction of the Inspector General pursuant to the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 1337 of the 
Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (Public Law 97-98).

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$45,146,000.

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $4,136,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $800,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Research, Education, and 
Economics mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$86,757,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $174,767,000, of which up to $45,300,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:  Provided, That amounts 
made available for the Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct 
Current Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges where the lands 
exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized by a payment of 
money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
$1,300,966,000, of which $10,600,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be used to carry out the science program at the 
National Bio- and Agro-defense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas; 
of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be available to carry out the 
dryland agriculture research program; and of which not less than 
$7,000,000 shall be available for purposes of entering into a 
management, operations, and research support contract to expedite the 
hiring of a capable workforce for the commissioning of the Central 
Utility Plant and in support of operations and management of the 
National Bio- and Agro-defense Facility:  Provided, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only:  
Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available 
pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost 
of constructing any one building shall not exceed $500,000, except for 
headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,800,000, 
except for 10 buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to 
exceed $1,100,000 each, and except for two buildings to be constructed 
at a cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building or $500,000, whichever is 
greater:  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for entering into lease agreements at any Agricultural 
Research Service location for the construction of a research facility 
by a non-Federal entity for use by the Agricultural Research Service 
and a condition of the lease shall be that any facility shall be owned, 
operated, and maintained by the non-Federal entity and shall be removed 
upon the expiration or termination of the lease agreement:  Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry 
out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a):  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
any Agricultural Research Service location for the construction of a 
research facility by a non-Federal entity for use by, and acceptable 
to, the Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the easements 
shall be that upon completion the facility shall be accepted by the 
Secretary, subject to the availability of funds herein, if the 
Secretary finds that acceptance of the facility is in the interest of 
the United States:  Provided further, That funds may be received from 
any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for 
the purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or 
research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by 
law.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$898,535,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, capacity 
building for non-land-grant colleges of agriculture, the agriculture 
and food research initiative, veterinary medicine loan repayment, 
multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution challenge 
grants, and grants management systems shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to receive 
funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than $1,000,000:  
Provided further, That funds for education grants for Alaska Native and 
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions be made available to individual 
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  Provided 
further, That funds for education grants for 1890 institutions shall be 
made available to institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 
3221 and 3222:  Provided further, That not more than 5 percent of the 
amounts made available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be 
retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to pay administrative costs 
incurred by the Secretary in carrying out that authority.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $486,692,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in 
the amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food 
and Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the report accompanying this 
Act:  Provided, That funds for facility improvements at 1890 
institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for 
cooperative extension receive no less than $1,000,000:  Provided 
further, That funds for cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and 
(c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) 
of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $38,000,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds 
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain available 
until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, indirect costs shall not be charged against any 
Extension Implementation Program Area grant awarded under the Crop 
Protection/Pest Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $901,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Marketing and Regulatory 
Programs mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$1,000,493,000, of which $470,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds 
(``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet emergency 
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be used for the cotton pests program for cost share purposes or 
for debt retirement for active eradication zones; of which $37,857,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
Technical Services; of which $705,000 shall be for activities under the 
authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended (15 U.S.C. 
1831); of which $62,840,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be used to support avian health; of which $4,251,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for information technology 
infrastructure; of which $178,170,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $11,826,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and rangeland 
ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for zoonotic disease management; of which 
$41,466,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for emergency 
preparedness and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for the National 
Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for the scrapie program for indemnities; of 
which $2,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for the 
wildlife damage management program for aviation safety:  Provided, That 
of amounts available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That of amounts available under this heading for the 
screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall remain available until expended; of 
which $13,600,000, to remain available until expended, shall be used to 
carry out the science program at the National Bio- and Agro-defense 
Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas:  Provided further, That no funds 
shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication 
program for the current fiscal year that does not require minimum 
matching by the States of at least 40 percent:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance 
of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed five, of which two shall 
be for replacement only:  Provided further, That in addition, in 
emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural production 
industry of the United States, the Secretary may transfer from other 
appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations of 
the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal 
Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 431 and 442 
of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any 
unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
amounts:  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration 
of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 2019, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be reimbursed to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$155,845,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available for the purposes 
of section 12306 of Public Law 113-79; and of which $7,000,000 shall be 
available for marketing activities authorized under section 204(b) of 
the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) to provide to 
State departments of agriculture, State cooperative extension services, 
institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations grants to 
carry out programs and provide technical assistance to promote 
innovation, process improvement, and marketing relating to dairy 
products:  Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $60,982,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses:  Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a et seq.); (2) transfers 
otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,489,000 for 
formulation and administration of marketing agreements and orders 
pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961 (Public Law 87-128).

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,235,000.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services:  
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food Safety, $800,000:  Provided, That funds made available by this Act 
to an agency in the Food Safety mission area for salaries and expenses 
are available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the 
Office.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $10,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,049,344,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees 
collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by 
section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f):  Provided, That funds provided for the Public 
Health Data Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2019 for 
purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement related to the 
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection Service shall continue 
implementation of section 11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further 
clarified by the amendments made in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79: 
 Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.

                                TITLE II

               FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Farm Production and Conservation, $901,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Farm Production and 
Conservation mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

            Farm Production and Conservation Business Center

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Production and Conservation 
Business Center, $1,028,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That $149,000 of amounts appropriated for the current fiscal 
year pursuant to section 1241(a) of the Farm Security and Rural 
Investment Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and 
merged with this account.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,202,146,000:  
Provided, That not more than 50 percent of the $44,691,000 made 
available under this heading for information technology related to farm 
program delivery, including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
Agricultural Systems and other farm program delivery systems, may be 
obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and receives written or 
electronic notification of receipt from such Committees of, a plan for 
expenditure that (1) identifies for each project/investment over 
$25,000 (a) the functional and performance capabilities to be delivered 
and the mission benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated lifecycle 
cost, including estimates for development as well as maintenance and 
operations, and (c) key milestones to be met; (2) demonstrates that 
each project/investment is, (a) consistent with the Farm Service Agency 
Information Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with 
applicable lifecycle management policies and guidance, and (c) subject 
to the applicable Department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements; and (3) has been reviewed by the Government 
Accountability Office and approved by the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That the agency shall 
submit a report by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 to 
the Committees on Appropriations and the Government Accountability 
Office, that identifies for each project/investment that is operational 
(a) current performance against key indicators of customer 
satisfaction, (b) current performance of service level agreements or 
other technical metrics, (c) current performance against a pre-
established cost baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current and 
planned spending on operational enhancements or upgrades, and (e) an 
assessment of whether the investment continues to meet business needs 
as intended as well as alternatives to the investment:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary is authorized to use the services, 
facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to make program payments for all programs administered by 
the Agency:  Provided further, That other funds made available to the 
Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and merged with 
this account:  Provided further, That funds made available to county 
committees shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to close Farm Service Agency county offices:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to permanently relocate county based employees that would result 
in an office with two or fewer employees without prior notification and 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,904,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 
Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
and Indian highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: $2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
$1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; $1,960,000,000 for 
unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans and $1,530,000,000 for direct 
operating loans; emergency loans, $37,668,000; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, 
$150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and 
for boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000:  Provided, That 
the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the 
purpose of boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm operating loans, 
$59,670,000 for direct operating loans, $21,168,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans, emergency loans, $1,567,000 and $2,134,000 
for Indian highly fractionated land loans to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $325,068,000:  Provided, That of 
this amount, $314,998,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses'', of 
which $8,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs:  
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $74,829,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i).

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$879,107,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $5,600,000, shall remain available until expended for the 
authorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009 for authorized 
ongoing watershed projects with a primary purpose of providing water to 
rural communities.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to surveys and investigations, engineering operations, 
works of improvement, and changes in use of land, in accordance with 
the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 
and 1007-1009) and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $150,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That for funds provided by this Act or any 
other prior Act, the limitation regarding the size of the watershed or 
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand acres in which 
such activities can be undertaken shall only apply for activities 
undertaken for the primary purpose of flood prevention (including 
structural and land treatment measures):  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $50,000,000 shall be 
allocated to projects and activities that can commence promptly 
following enactment; that address regional priorities for flood 
prevention, agricultural water management, inefficient irrigation 
systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or watershed protection; or that 
address authorized ongoing projects under the authorities of section 13 
of the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78-534) with 
a primary purpose of watershed protection by preventing floodwater 
damage and stabilizing stream channels, tributaries, and banks to 
reduce erosion and sediment transport.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the 
funds available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
6961).

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

                           Rural Development

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of Rural Development programs, including activities with 
institutions concerning the development and operation of agricultural 
cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; $232,835,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated 
under this heading may be used for advertising and promotional 
activities that support Rural Development programs:  Provided further, 
That in addition to any other funds appropriated for purposes 
authorized by section 502(i) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
1472(i)), any amounts collected under such section will immediately be 
credited to this account and will remain available until expended for 
such purposes.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $1,100,000,000 shall be for direct loans and $24,000,000,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$230,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing acquired 
property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development 
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $53,900,000 shall be for 
direct loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $3,419,000; section 523 
self-help housing land development loans, $431,000; section 524 site 
development loans, $176,000; and repair, rehabilitation, and new 
construction of section 515 rental housing, $9,484,000:  Provided, That 
to support the loan program level for section 538 guaranteed loans made 
available under this heading the Secretary may charge or adjust any 
fees to cover the projected cost of such loan guarantees pursuant to 
the provisions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), 
and the interest on such loans may not be subsidized:  Provided 
further, That applicants in communities that have a current rural area 
waiver under section 541 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) 
shall be treated as living in a rural area for purposes of section 502 
guaranteed loans provided under this heading:  Provided further, That 
of the amounts available under this paragraph for section 502 direct 
loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct loans for 
individuals whose homes will be built pursuant to a program funded with 
a mutual and self-help housing grant authorized by section 523 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 until June 1, 2019:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall implement provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit 
organizations and public housing authorities to facilitate the 
acquisition of Rural Housing Service (RHS) multifamily housing 
properties by such nonprofit organizations and public housing 
authorities that commit to keep such properties in the RHS multifamily 
housing program for a period of time as determined by the Secretary, 
with such incentives to include, but not be limited to, the following: 
allow such nonprofit entities and public housing authorities to earn a 
Return on Investment on their own resources to include proceeds from 
low income housing tax credit syndication, own contributions, grants, 
and developer loans at favorable rates and terms, invested in a deal; 
and allow reimbursement of organizational costs associated with owner's 
oversight of asset referred to as ``Asset Management Fee'' of up to 
$7,500 per property.
    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, 
as authorized by sections 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $14,281,000, to remain available until expended, 
for direct farm labor housing loans and domestic farm labor housing 
grants and contracts:  Provided, That any balances available for the 
Farm Labor Program Account shall be transferred to and merged with this 
account.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 or 
agreements entered into in lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for 
eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the 
Housing Act of 1949, $1,331,400,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2020; and in addition such sums as may be 
necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate 
debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental 
assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of the Act:  Provided, That 
rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed during the current 
fiscal year shall be funded for a one-year period:  Provided further, 
That any unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-year 
agreements may be transferred and used for purposes of any debt 
reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any existing 
projects; preservation; and rental assistance activities authorized 
under title V of the Act:  Provided further, That rental assistance 
provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 2019 for a 
farm labor multi-family housing project financed under section 514 or 
516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in another project until 
such assistance has remained unused for a period of 12 consecutive 
months, if such project has a waiting list of tenants seeking such 
assistance or the project has rental assistance eligible tenants who 
are not receiving such assistance:  Provided further, That such 
recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act:  Provided further, That except as 
provided in the third proviso under this heading and notwithstanding 
any other provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 
2019 for a project that the Secretary determines no longer needs rental 
assistance and use such recaptured funds for current needs.

          multi-family housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-family rental 
housing properties described in this paragraph, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $26,000,000, shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005:  Provided 
further, That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference 
between comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant 
paid rent for such unit:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development:  Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is 
not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing properties described in this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$24,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 
multi-family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems appropriate, 
expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project has sufficient 
resources to preserve the project for the purpose of providing safe and 
affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers including 
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances, payments and incentives (including the 
ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall as part 
of the preservation and revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive 
use agreement consistent with the terms of the restructuring:  Provided 
further, That if the Secretary determines that additional funds for 
vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for the 
preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used for 
such vouchers:  Provided further, That if Congress enacts legislation 
to permanently authorize a multi-family rental housing loan 
restructuring program similar to the demonstration program described 
herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 
total, from the program funds made available under this heading, for 
administrative expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $40,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$3,000,000,000 for direct loans and $148,287,000 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying 
loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, $4,285,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost of grants for rural community facilities programs as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $47,778,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $6,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for a Rural 
Community Development Initiative:  Provided further, That such funds 
shall be used solely to develop the capacity and ability of private, 
nonprofit community-based housing and community development 
organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve housing, 
community facilities, community and economic development projects in 
rural areas:  Provided further, That such funds shall be made available 
to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary organizations 
proposing to carry out a program of financial and technical assistance: 
 Provided further, That such intermediary organizations shall provide 
matching funds from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
activities, in an amount not less than funds provided:  Provided 
further, That $5,778,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be to provide grants for facilities in rural communities with 
extreme unemployment and severe economic depression (Public Law 106-
387), with up to 5 percent for administration and capacity building in 
the State rural development offices:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by 
section 306(a)(19) of such Act:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
applicable to the funds made available under this heading.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $69,619,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant 
to a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance 
for rural transportation in order to promote economic development and 
$8,000,000 shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 
U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional Commission (40 
U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the Appalachian Regional Commission (40 
U.S.C. 14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program 
purpose as described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for business grants to 
benefit Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including $250,000 
for a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to funds 
made available under this heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$18,889,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $4,157,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$557,000 shall be available through June 30, 2019, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2019, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,468,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$45,000,000.
    The cost of grants authorized under section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting rural economic 
development and job creation projects shall not exceed $10,000,000.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $30,050,000, of which $3,750,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised 
of individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $17,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a), of which $2,500,000 shall be for Agriculture 
Innovation Centers authorized pursuant to section 6402 of Public Law 
107-171.

                    rural energy for america program

    For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $338,000:  Provided, That 
the cost of loan guarantees, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants for the 
rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste management 
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B 
and described in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $558,183,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to exceed $993,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 306E of 
such Act:  Provided, That not to exceed $15,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be for grants authorized by 
section 306A(i)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
in addition to funding authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of such Act and 
such grants may not exceed $1,000,000 notwithstanding section 
306A(f)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That $68,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for loans and grants 
including water and waste disposal systems grants authorized by section 
306C(a)(2)(B) and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, and Federally Recognized Native American Tribes 
authorized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That funding 
provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may be provided to a consortium formed pursuant to 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83:  Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by the State of Alaska for 
training and technical assistance programs and not more than 2 percent 
of the funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act may be used by a consortium formed pursuant to 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and technical assistance 
programs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $40,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for technical 
assistance grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 
306(a)(14) of such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be made available for a grant 
to a qualified nonprofit multi-State regional technical assistance 
organization, with experience in working with small communities on 
water and waste water problems, the principal purpose of such grant 
shall be to assist rural communities with populations of 3,300 or less, 
in improving the planning, financing, development, operation, and 
management of water and waste water systems, and of which not less than 
$800,000 shall be for a qualified national Native American organization 
to provide technical assistance for rural water systems for tribal 
communities:  Provided further, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for contracting with 
qualified national organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid waste management grants:  
Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be transferred to, and merged with, the Rural 
Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide grants 
authorized under section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 918a):  Provided further, That any prior year balances for high-
energy cost grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be transferred to and 
merged with the Rural Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants 
Account:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to the 
funds made available under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by sections 305, 306, and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
(7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made as follows: loans made 
pursuant to sections 305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of that 
Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guaranteed underwriting loans 
pursuant to section 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, 
and for loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, rural 
telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:  Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, design 
and engineering or improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating 
plants (whether new or existing) that utilize carbon subsurface 
utilization and storage systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, $1,725,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication loans, 
$29,851,000.
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $33,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $3,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants authorized by 379G of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act:  Provided further, That funding provided under 
this heading for grants under 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may only be provided to entities that meet all of the 
eligibility criteria for a consortium as established by this section.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 601 of 
the Rural Electrification Act, $5,830,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the cost of direct loans shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
grant program to finance broadband transmission in rural areas eligible 
for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 950aaa.

               rural health and safety education programs

    Any funds provided by this Act for rural health and safety 
education programs authorized under section 502(i) of the Rural 
Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662(i)) may be used under those 
programs to address the opioid abuse epidemic and to combat opioid 
abuse in rural communities.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $800,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Food, Nutrition and 
Consumer Services mission area for salaries and expenses are available 
to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 
17 and 21; $23,184,012,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2020, of which such sums as are made available under section 
14222(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
available for the same time period and purposes as provided herein:  
Provided, That of the total amount available, $17,004,000 shall be 
available to carry out section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies and 
schools to purchase the equipment, with a value of greater than $1,000, 
needed to serve healthier meals, improve food safety, and to help 
support the establishment, maintenance, or expansion of the school 
breakfast program:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $28,000,000 shall remain available until expended to carry 
out section 749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-80):  Provided further, That section 26(d) of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769g(d)) is 
amended in the first sentence by striking ``2010 through 2018'' and 
inserting ``2010 through 2019'':  Provided further, That section 
9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1758(h)(3)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``for fiscal 
year 2018'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2019'':  Provided further, 
That section 9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``for fiscal year 2018'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2019''.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,150,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2020, of which $25,000,000 shall be placed in 
reserve, to remain available until expended, to be allocated as the 
Secretary deemed necessary, notwithstanding section 17(i) of such Act, 
to support participation should cost or participation exceed budget 
estimates:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 17(h)(10) of the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than 
$67,500,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer counselors and other 
related activities, and $19,000,000 shall be used for infrastructure, 
of which $5,000,000 shall be for competitive grants to promote 
breastfeeding and improved nutritional health through technologies and 
services, including telemedicine:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this account shall be available for the purchase of 
infant formula except in accordance with the cost containment and 
competitive bidding requirements specified in section 17 of such Act:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided shall be available 
for activities that are not fully reimbursed by other Federal 
Government departments or agencies unless authorized by section 17 of 
such Act:  Provided further, That upon termination of a federally 
mandated vendor moratorium and subject to terms and conditions 
established by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive the requirement 
at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $73,219,274,000, of which $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available through December 31, 2020, shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations:  Provided, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used to provide 
nutrition education services to State agencies and Federally Recognized 
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
subject to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be 
required by law:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
Employment and Training under this heading shall remain available 
through September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading for section 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and 
section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading may be obligated or 
expended in contravention of section 213A of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A):  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading may be used to enter into contracts and 
employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct activities 
related to program integrity provided that such activities are 
authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $322,139,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2020:  Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds 
made available in fiscal year 2019 to support the Seniors Farmers' 
Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain 
available through September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 15 percent for 
costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$164,688,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, 
as amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, $875,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to any agency in the Trade and Foreign 
Agricultural Affairs mission area for salaries and expenses are 
available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the 
Office.

                      office of codex alimentarius

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Codex Alimentarius, 
$3,976,000, including not to exceed $40,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $212,230,000, of which no more than 6 percent shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020, for overseas operations to 
include the payment of locally employed staff:  Provided, That the 
Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation 
for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the United States Agency for 
International Development:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for middle-income country training programs, funds made available for 
the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology 
Fellowship program, and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service appropriation solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations 
in international currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by 
the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall remain available until 
expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the Food for 
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,716,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $210,255,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$15,000,000, shall remain available until expended for necessary 
expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3207 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$8,845,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $2,463,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to amounts appropriated 
to the FDA Innovation Account, for carrying out the activities 
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public 
Law 114-255); for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities, authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be 
accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed 
$25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of Public Law 107-188; 
$5,419,299,000:  Provided, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $960,568,000 shall be derived from prescription drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to this account and 
remain available until expended; $196,668,000 shall be derived from 
medical device user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$501,396,000 shall be derived from human generic drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $40,922,000 shall be derived from 
biosimilar biological product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-
52, and shall be credited to this account and remain available until 
expended; $30,331,000 shall be derived from animal drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $18,336,000 shall be derived from 
generic new animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco product user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That in addition to and 
notwithstanding any other provision under this heading, amounts 
collected for prescription drug user fees, medical device user fees, 
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar biological product user fees, 
animal drug user fees, and generic new animal drug user fees that 
exceed the respective fiscal year 2019 limitations are appropriated and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That fees derived from prescription drug, medical 
device, human generic drug, biosimilar biological product, animal drug, 
and generic new animal drug assessments for fiscal year 2019, including 
any such fees collected prior to fiscal year 2019 but credited for 
fiscal year 2019, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2019 limitations: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may accept payment during fiscal 
year 2019 of user fees specified under this heading and authorized for 
fiscal year 2020, prior to the due date for such fees, and that amounts 
of such fees assessed for fiscal year 2020 for which the Secretary 
accepts payment in fiscal year 2019 shall not be included in amounts 
under this heading:  Provided further, That none of these funds shall 
be used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user fees 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated: (1) $1,052,315,000 shall be for the Center for 
Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field activities in the 
Office of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than $15,000,000 shall 
be used for inspections of foreign seafood manufacturers and field 
examinations of imported seafood; (2) $1,720,807,000 shall be for the 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $369,857,000 shall be for the 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $216,914,000 shall 
be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $495,988,000 shall 
be for the Center for Devices and Radiological Health and for related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $65,531,000 
shall be for the National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) 
$662,043,000 shall be for the Center for Tobacco Products and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (8) not 
to exceed $174,751,000 shall be for Rent and Related activities, of 
which $50,987,000 is for White Oak Consolidation, other than the 
amounts paid to the General Services Administration for rent; (9) not 
to exceed $240,887,000 shall be for payments to the General Services 
Administration for rent; and (10) $420,206,000 shall be for other 
activities, including the Office of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
the Office of Foods and Veterinary Medicine, the Office of Medical and 
Tobacco Products, the Office of Global and Regulatory Policy, the 
Office of Operations, the Office of the Chief Scientist, and central 
services for these offices:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$25,000 of this amount shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by 
the Commissioner:  Provided further, That any transfer of funds 
pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
(21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made available under 
this heading for other activities:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts that are made available under this heading for ``other 
activities'', and that are not derived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Office of Inspector General'' for oversight 
of the programs and operations of the Food and Drug Administration and 
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available for oversight of 
the Food and Drug Administration:  Provided further, That funds may be 
transferred from one specified activity to another with the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, 
export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, priority 
review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed 
recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary qualified importer 
program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale 
distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and inspection fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and medical countermeasure priority 
review voucher user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a, shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, demolition, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities 
of or used by the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise 
provided, $11,788,000, to remain available until expended.

                   fda innovation account, cures act

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described under 
section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to 
amounts available for such purposes under the heading ``Salaries and 
Expenses'', $70,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That amounts appropriated in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant 
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures Act, are to be derived 
from amounts transferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act, and 
may be transferred by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to the 
appropriation for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Food and 
Drug Administration--Salaries and Expenses'' solely for the purposes 
provided in such Act:  Provided further, That upon a determination by 
the Commissioner that funds transferred pursuant to the previous 
proviso are not necessary for the purposes provided, such amounts may 
be transferred back to the account:  Provided further, That such 
transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $74,600,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships:  Provided further, That the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68 shall be 
for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding this section, the only purchase of new passenger 
vehicles shall be for those determined by the Secretary to be necessary 
for transportation safety, to reduce operational costs, and for the 
protection of life, property, and public safety.
    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the delivery 
of financial, administrative, and information technology services of 
primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such 
transferred funds to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without written notification to and the 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes to 
the Department's National Finance Center without written notification 
to and prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress as required by section 717 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act or made 
available to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, implement, or 
make any changes to remove or relocate any systems, missions, or 
functions of the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or any 
personnel from the National Finance Center prior to written 
notification to and prior approval of the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress and in accordance with the requirements of 
section 717 of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the offices of the Chief Financial Officer shall 
actively market to existing and new Departments and other government 
agencies National Finance Center shared services including, but not 
limited to, payroll, financial management, and human capital shared 
services and allow the National Finance Center to perform technology 
upgrades:  Provided further, That of annual income amounts in the 
Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture attributable to 
the amounts in excess of the true costs of the shared services provided 
by the National Finance Center and budgeted for the National Finance 
Center, the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4 percent for the 
replacement or acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment 
for the improvement, delivery, and implementation of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services, and other systems 
of the National Finance Center or to pay any unforeseen, extraordinary 
cost of the National Finance Center:  Provided further, That none of 
the amounts reserved shall be available for obligation unless the 
Secretary submits written notification of the obligation to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided 
further, That the limitations on the obligation of funds pending 
notification to Congressional Committees shall not apply to any 
obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, is necessary to 
respond to a declared state of emergency that significantly impacts the 
operations of the National Finance Center; or to evacuate employees of 
the National Finance Center to a safe haven to continue operations of 
the National Finance Center.
    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 11319 of 
title 40, United States Code, none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects, contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior to 
receipt of written approval by the Chief Information Officer:  Provided 
further, That the Chief Information Officer may authorize an agency to 
obligate funds without written approval from the Chief Information 
Officer for projects, contracts, or other agreements up to $250,000 
based upon the performance of an agency measured against the 
performance plan requirements described in the explanatory statement 
accompanying Public Law 113-235.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or 
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, or any 
not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or direct 
loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under section 
313(b)(2)(B) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such 
Act.
    Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2020, for 
information technology expenses:  Provided, That except as otherwise 
specifically provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Rural 
Development mission area shall remain available through September 30, 
2020, for information technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), other than by title I 
or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or programs for which 
indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, that is authorized or 
required to be carried out using funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.
    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,900,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against any agricultural research, education, or 
extension grant awards issued by the National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture that exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds provided 
under each award:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture shall 
be available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant 
awarded under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 715.  Notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 14222 of 
Public Law 110-246 (7 U.S.C. 612c-6; in this section referred to as 
``section 14222''), none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a program under section 32 of 
the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred to 
as ``section 32'') in excess of $1,299,600,000 (exclusive of carryover 
appropriations from prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutrition 
Programs Entitlement Commodities--$485,000,000; State Option 
Contracts-- $5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commodities-- $2,500,000; 
Administration of Section 32 Commodity Purchases--$35,853,000:  
Provided, That of the total funds made available in the matter 
preceding this proviso that remain unobligated on October 1, 2019, such 
unobligated balances shall carryover into fiscal year 2020 and shall 
remain available until expended for any of the purposes of section 32, 
except that any such carryover funds used in accordance with clause (3) 
of section 32 may not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obligated 
until the Secretary of Agriculture provides written notification of the 
expenditures to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least two weeks in advance:  Provided further, That, with 
the exception of any available carryover funds authorized in any prior 
appropriations Act to be used for the purposes of clause (3) of section 
32, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any 
employee of the Department of Agriculture to carry out clause (3) of 
section 32.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2020 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming, 
transfer of funds, or reimbursements as authorized by the Economy Act, 
or in the case of the Department of Agriculture, through use of the 
authority provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89-106 
(7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming of such funds 
or the use of such authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming or use of the authorities referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
        Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
        approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
        of Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming or 
        transfer of such funds or the use of such authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall notify in writing and receive approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before 
implementing any program or activity not carried out during the 
previous fiscal year unless the program or activity is funded by this 
Act or specifically funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request; unless the agencies funded by 
        this Act notify, in writing, the Committees on Appropriations 
        of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of using 
        the funds for these purposes.
    (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for any 
activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services receives from the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of 
receipt of the notification as required in this section.
    Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may 
assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and industry loan in 
an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal 
portion of the loan.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, or the Farm Credit Administration shall be used to 
transmit or otherwise make available reports, questions, or responses 
to questions that are a result of information requested for the 
appropriations hearing process to any non-Department of Agriculture, 
non-Department of Health and Human Services, or non-Farm Credit 
Administration employee.
    Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive branch agency 
to produce any prepackaged news story intended for broadcast or 
distribution in the United States unless the story includes a clear 
notification within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
    Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act or any 
other Act to any other agency or office of the Department for more than 
60 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing agency or 
office is fully reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the 
salary and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722.  There is hereby appropriated $2,000,000 for a pilot 
program to provide competitive grants to State departments of 
agriculture, State cooperative extension services, and nonprofit 
organizations to carry out programs to address farmer stress and 
suicide.
    Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the Food 
and Drug Administration, and the Chairman of the Farm Credit 
Administration shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a detailed spending plan by program, project, and 
activity for all the funds made available under this Act including 
appropriated user fees, as defined in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
for the supplemental nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $400,000,000 are 
hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall continue an intermediary loan 
packaging program based on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year 
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 single family direct 
loans. The Secretary shall continue agreements with current 
intermediary organizations and with additional qualified intermediary 
organizations. The Secretary shall work with these organizations to 
increase effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan 
program in rural communities and shall set aside and make available 
from the national reserve section 502 loans an amount necessary to 
support the work of such intermediaries and provide a priority for 
review of such loans.
    Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not require budget 
authority and the program level has been established in this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level for such loans 
and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:  Provided, That prior 
to the Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, 
in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 15 days in advance.
    Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be 
available for obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided, That the refunds or rebates so transferred shall 
be available for obligation only for the acquisition of plant and 
capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services of primary benefit 
to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 728.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the ``variety'' requirements of 
the final rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer Standards in the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)'' published by the 
Department of Agriculture in the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 
(81 Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agriculture amends the 
definition of the term ``variety'' as de fined in section 
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and 
``variety'' as applied in the definition of the term ``staple food'' as 
defined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, to 
increase the number of items that qualify as acceptable varieties in 
each staple food category so that the total number of such items in 
each staple food category exceeds the number of such items in each 
staple food category included in the final rule as published on 
December 15, 2016:  Provided, That until the Secretary promulgates such 
regulatory amendments, the Secretary shall apply the requirements 
regarding acceptable varieties and breadth of stock to Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program retailers that were in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
(Public Law 113-79).
    Sec. 729.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used--
            (1) in contravention of section 7606 of the Agricultural 
        Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
            (2) to prohibit the transportation, processing, sale, or 
        use of industrial hemp, or seeds of such plant, that is grown 
        or cultivated in accordance with subsection section 7606 of the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014, within or outside the State in which 
        the industrial hemp is grown or cultivated.
    Sec. 730.  Funds provided by this or any prior Appropriations Act 
for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) 
shall be made available without regard to section 7128 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching 
requirements in laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment 
of such section:  Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
    Sec. 731.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall have the same authority with respect to loans guaranteed under 
such section and eligible lenders for such loans as the Secretary has 
under subsections (h) and (j) of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1490p-2) with respect to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and 
eligible lenders for such loans.
    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 733.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a submission 
for an exemption for investigational use of a drug or biological 
product under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo 
is intentionally created or modified to include a heritable genetic 
modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to have not been 
received by the Secretary, and the exemption may not go into effect.
    Sec. 734.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to carry out the final rule promulgated by the Food and 
Drug Administration and put into effect November 16, 2015, in regards 
to the hazard analysis and risk-based preventive control requirements 
of the current good manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and risk-
based preventive controls for food for animals rule with respect to the 
regulation of the production, distribution, sale, or receipt of dried 
spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic beverage production process.
    Sec. 735.  There is hereby appropriated $1,996,000 to carry out 
section 1621 of Public Law 110-246.
    Sec. 736.  No partially hydrogenated oils as defined in the order 
published by the Food and Drug Administration in the Federal Register 
on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et seq.) shall be deemed unsafe 
within the meaning of section 409(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 348(a)) and no food that is introduced or 
delivered for introduction into interstate commerce that bears or 
contains a partially hydrogenated oil shall be deemed adulterated under 
sections 402(a)(1) or 402(a)(2)(C)(i) of this Act by virtue of bearing 
or containing a partially hydrogenated oil until the compliance date as 
specified in such order (June 18, 2018).
    Sec. 737.  There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a):  Provided, 
That the Secretary may allow eligible entities to offer loans to 
customers in any part of their service territory and to offer loans to 
replace a manufactured housing unit with another manufactured housing 
unit, if replacement would be more cost effective in saving energy.
    Sec. 738.  For fiscal years 2019 through 2025, the Administrators 
of the Agricultural Research Service and the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service may make not to exceed 50 appointments in any fiscal 
year for employees of such agencies at the National Bio- and Agro-
defense Facility (NBAF) in Manhattan, Kansas:  Provided, That such 
appointments may be made in the manner provided by 7 U.S.C. 
7657(b)(4)(A)(i-v):  Provided further, That such appointments may be 
made at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the rate payable for such 
positions under the General Schedule or the Executive Schedule, or 
other applicable schedule, as appropriate.
    Sec. 739.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 for the 
Secretary to carry out a pilot program that provides forestry inventory 
analysis, forest management and economic outcomes modelling for certain 
currently enrolled Conservation Reserve Program participants. The 
Secretary shall allow the Commodity Credit Corporation to enter into 
agreements with and provide grants to qualified non-profit 
organizations dedicated to conservation, forestry and wildlife 
habitats, that also have experience in conducting accurate forest 
inventory analysis through the use of advanced, cost-effective 
technology. The Secretary shall focus the analysis on lands enrolled 
for at least eight years and located in areas with a substantial 
concentration of acres enrolled under conservation practices devoted to 
multiple bottomland hardwood tree species including CP03, CP03A, CP11, 
CP22, CP31 and CP40.
    Sec. 740.  During fiscal year 2019, the Food and Drug 
Administration shall not allow the introduction or delivery for 
introduction into interstate commerce of any food that contains 
genetically engineered salmon until the FDA publishes final labeling 
guidelines for informing consumers of such content.
    Sec. 741.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this 
Act and notwithstanding the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310, there is 
appropriated $4,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
implement non-renewable agreements on eligible lands, including flooded 
agricultural lands, as determined by the Secretary, under the Water 
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311).
    Sec. 742. (a)(1) No Federal funds made available for this fiscal 
year for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste 
management programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, 
and 310B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926 et seq.) shall be used for a project for the construction, 
alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater 
system unless all of the iron and steel products used in the project 
are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel products'' means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Secretary of Agriculture (in this section referred to as 
the ``Secretary'') or the designee of the Secretary finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Secretary or the designee receives a request for a 
waiver under this section, the Secretary or the designee shall make 
available to the public on an informal basis a copy of the request and 
information available to the Secretary or the designee concerning the 
request, and shall allow for informal public input on the request for 
at least 15 days prior to making a finding based on the request. The 
Secretary or the designee shall make the request and accompanying 
information available by electronic means, including on the official 
public Internet Web site of the Department.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for ``Rural Utilities Service--Rural Water and 
Waste Disposal Program Account'' for carrying out the provisions 
described in subsection (a)(1) for management and oversight of the 
requirements of this section.
    (f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a project for 
which the engineering plans and specifications include use of iron and 
steel products otherwise prohibited by such subsection if the plans and 
specifications have received required approvals from State agencies 
prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
    (g) For purposes of this section, the terms ``United States'' and 
``State'' shall include each of the several States, the District of 
Columbia, and each federally recognized Indian tribe.
    Sec. 743.  The Secretary shall set aside for Rural Economic Area 
Partnership (REAP) Zones, until August 15, 2019, an amount of funds 
made available in title III under the headings of Rural Housing 
Insurance Fund Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants, 
Rural Housing Assistance Grants, Rural Community Facilities Program 
Account, Rural Business Program Account, Rural Development Loan Fund 
Program Account, and Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account, 
equal to the amount obligated in REAP Zones with respect to funds 
provided under such headings in the most recent fiscal year any such 
funds were obligated under such headings for REAP Zones.
    Sec. 744.  For the purposes of determining eligibility or level of 
program assistance for Rural Development programs the Secretary shall 
not include incarcerated prison populations.
    Sec. 745.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for a pilot program for the Secretary to 
provide grants to qualified non-profit organizations and public housing 
authorities to provide technical assistance, including financial and 
legal services, to RHS multi-family housing borrowers to facilitate the 
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing properties in areas where the 
Secretary determines a risk of loss of affordable housing, by non-
profit housing organizations and public housing authorities as 
authorized by law that commit to keep such properties in the RHS multi-
family housing program for a period of time as determined by the 
Secretary.
    Sec. 746.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action 
on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, 
other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 
U.S.C. 1913.
    Sec. 747. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') shall carry out a pilot program during 
fiscal year 2019 with respect to the 2018 crop year for county-level 
agriculture risk coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), that provides all or 
some of the State Farm Service Agency offices in each State the 
opportunity to provide agricultural producers in the State a 
supplemental payment described in subsection (c) based on the alternate 
calculation method described in subsection (b) for 1 or more counties 
in a State if the office for that State determines that the alternate 
calculation method is necessary to ensure that, to the maximum extent 
practicable, there are not significant yield calculation disparities 
between comparable counties in the State.
    (b) The alternate calculation method referred to in subsection (a) 
is a method of calculating the actual yield for the 2018 crop year for 
county-level agriculture risk coverage payments under section 
1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), under 
which--
            (1) county data of the National Agricultural Statistics 
        Service (referred to in this section as ``NASS data'') is used 
        for the calculations;
            (2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a county (as 
        determined under standards of the Secretary in effect as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act) or the available NASS data 
        produces a substantially disparate result, the calculation of 
        the county yield is determined using comparable contiguous 
        county NASS data as determined by the Farm Service Agency 
        office in the applicable State; and
            (3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a comparable 
        contiguous county (as determined under standards of the 
        Secretary in effect as of the date of enactment of this Act), 
        the calculation of the county yield is determined using 
        reliable yield data from other sources, such as Risk Management 
        Agency data, National Agricultural Statistics Service district 
        data, National Agricultural Statistics Service State yield 
        data, or other data as determined by the Farm Service Agency 
        office in the applicable State.
    (c)(1) A supplemental payment made under the pilot program 
established under this section may be made to an agricultural producer 
who is subject to the alternate calculation method described in 
subsection (b) if that agricultural producer would otherwise receive a 
county-level agriculture risk coverage payment for the 2018 crop year 
in an amount that is less than the payment that the agricultural 
producer would receive under the alternate calculation method.
    (2) The amount of a supplemental payment to an agricultural 
producer under this section may not exceed the difference between--
            (A) the payment that the agricultural producer would have 
        received without the alternate calculation method described in 
        subsection (b); and
            (B) the payment that the agricultural producer would 
        receive using the alternate calculation method.
    (d)(1) There is appropriated to the Secretary, out of funds of the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2020, to carry out the pilot program described in 
this section.
    (2) Of the funds appropriated, the Secretary shall use not more 
than $5,000,000 to carry out the pilot program described in this 
section.
    (e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall 
select States to participate in the pilot program under this section so 
the cost of the pilot program equals the amount provided under 
subsection (d).
    (2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot program exceeds the 
amount made available, the Secretary shall reduce all payments under 
the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
    (f) Nothing in this section affects the calculation of actual yield 
for purposes of county-level agriculture risk coverage payments under 
section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 
9017(b)(1)) other than payments made in accordance with the pilot 
program under this section.
    (g) A calculation of actual yield made using the alternate 
calculation method described in subsection (b) shall not be used as a 
basis for any agriculture risk coverage payment determinations under 
section 1117 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017) other than 
for purposes of the pilot program under this section.
    Sec. 748.  The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary's 
designees are hereby granted the same access to information and subject 
to the same requirements applicable to the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development as provided in section 453 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 653) and section 6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify the income for 
individuals participating in sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and 1490r), 
notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of the Social Security Act.
    Sec. 749.  In addition to any other funds made available in this 
Act or any other Act, there is appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out 
section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1769(g)), to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 750.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Food and Drug Administration to develop, issue, promote, or 
advance any regulations applicable to food manufacturers for 
population-wide sodium reduction actions or to develop, issue, promote 
or advance final guidance applicable to food manufacturers for long 
term population-wide sodium reduction actions until the date on which a 
dietary reference intake report with respect to sodium is completed.
    Sec. 751.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, for the cost of loans and grants 
that is consistent with section 4206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, 
for necessary expenses of the Secretary to support projects that 
provide access to healthy food in underserved areas, to create and 
preserve quality jobs, and to revitalize low-income communities.
    Sec. 752.  For an additional amount for ``Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service--Salaries and Expenses'', $7,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, for one-time control and management 
and associated activities directly related to the multiple-agency 
response to citrus greening.
    Sec. 753.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enforce the final rule promulgated by the Food and 
Drug Administration entitled ``Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,'' and published 
on November 27, 2015, with respect to the regulation of the production, 
distribution, sale, or receipt of grape varietals that are grown, 
harvested and used solely for wine and receive commercial processing 
that adequately reduces the presence of microorganisms of public health 
significance.
    Sec. 754.  There is hereby appropriated $20,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for an additional amount for telemedicine and 
distance learning services in rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., to help address the opioid epidemic in rural America.
    Sec. 755.  There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, for a pilot program for the 
National Institute of Food and Agriculture to provide grants to 
nonprofit organizations for programs and services to establish and 
enhance farming and ranching opportunities for military veterans.
    Sec. 756.  There is hereby appropriated $425,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for an additional amount for Sec. 779 of 
Public Law 115-141.
    Sec. 757.  For an additional amount for the cost of direct loans 
and grants made under the ``Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program 
Account'', $400,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 758.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel--
            (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
        Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
            (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
        note; Public Law 104-127); or
            (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
    Sec. 759.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to revoke an exception made--
            (1) pursuant to the final rule of the Department of 
        Agriculture entitled ``Exceptions to Geographic Areas for 
        Official Agencies Under the USGSA'' (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 (April 
        18, 2003)); and
            (2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
    Sec. 760.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall provide to any State 
or county impacted by a volcanic eruption covered by a major disaster 
declared by the President in calendar year 2018 in accordance with 
section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) technical assistance--
            (1) to assess damage to agricultural production and rural 
        infrastructure; and
            (2) to develop recovery plans for impacted farmers, 
        ranchers, and rural communities.

                     research on ocean agriculture

    Sec. 761.  (a) The Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination with 
the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, shall establish a working group (referred to in this 
section as the ``working group'')--
            (1) to study how mangroves, kelp forests, tidal marshes, 
        and seagrass meadows could help deacidify the oceans;
            (2) to study emerging ocean farming practices that use kelp 
        and seagrass to deacidify the oceans while providing feedstock 
        for agriculture and other commercial and industrial inputs; and
            (3) to coordinate and conduct research to develop and 
        enhance pilot-scale research for farming of kelp and seagrass 
        in order--
                    (A) to deacidify ocean environments;
                    (B) to produce a feedstock for agriculture; and
                    (C) to develop other scalable commercial 
                applications for kelp, seagrass, or products derived 
                from kelp or seagrass.
    (b) The working group shall include--
            (1) the Secretary of Agriculture;
            (2) the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration;
            (3) representatives of any relevant offices within the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
            (4) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency 
        and Renewable Energy.
    (c) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the working group shall submit to Congress a report that includes--
            (1) the findings of the research described in subsection 
        (a);
            (2) the results of the pilot-scale research described in 
        subsection (a)(3); and
            (3) any policy recommendations based on those findings and 
        results.
    Sec. 762.  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a 
report describing the ways in which conservation programs administered 
by the Natural Resources Conservation Service may be better used for 
the conservation of ocelots (Leopardus pardalis) and any action taken 
by the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service relating to 
the conservation of ocelots.
    Sec. 763.  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Rural Housing Service of the Department of Agriculture 
shall submit to Congress a report including--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) the number of properties assisted under title V 
                of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) 
                that are reaching the end of their loan term;
                    (B) the location of each property described in 
                subparagraph (A);
                    (C) the number of units in each property described 
                in subparagraph (A); and
                    (D) the date on which each the loan for each 
                property described in subparagraph (A) is expected to 
                reach maturity;
            (2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Service to preserve 
        the long-term affordability of the properties described in 
        paragraph (1)(A) when the loan matures; and
            (3) a description of the resources and tools that the Rural 
        Housing Service needs from Congress in order to preserve the 
        long-term affordability of the properties described in 
        paragraph (1) (A).
    Sec. 764.  Out of amounts appropriated to the Food and Drug 
Administration under title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall, not 
later than July 1, 2019, and following the review required under 
Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory 
planning and review), issue advice revising the advice provided in the 
notice of availability entitled ``Advice About Eating Fish, From the 
Environmental Protection Agency and Food and Drug Administration; 
Revised Fish Advice; Availability'' (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19, 
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with nutrition science 
recognized by the Food and Drug Administration on the net effects of 
seafood consumption.
    Sec. 765.  In administering the pilot program established by 
section 779 of division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 
(Public Law 115-141), the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) ensure that applicants that are determined to be 
        ineligible for the pilot program have a means of appealing or 
        otherwise challenging that determination in a timely fashion; 
        and
            (2) in determining whether an entity may overbuild or 
        duplicate broadband expansion efforts made by any entity that 
        has received a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities Service, 
        not consider loans that were rescinded or defaulted on, or 
        loans the terms and conditions of which were not met, if the 
        entity under consideration has not previously defaulted on, or 
        failed to meet the terms and conditions of, a Rural Utilities 
        Service loan or had a Rural Utilities Service loan rescinded.

        1890 land-grant colleges, including tuskegee university

    Sec. 767. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
amounts made available by this Act to carry out sections 1444 and 1445, 
respectively, of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222) shall each be 
increased by $3,000,000.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the amount 
made available under the heading ``(including transfers of funds)'' 
under the heading ``Agriculture Buildings and Facilities'' under the 
heading ``AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS'' in title I shall be decreased by 
$6,000,000.
    Sec. 768.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to enforce the requirement in the final rule entitled ``Food 
Labeling: Revision of the Nutrition and Supplement Facts Labels'', 
published in the Federal Register on May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 33742), 
that any single ingredient sugar, honey, agave, or syrup (including 
maple syrup) that is packaged and offered for sale as a single 
ingredient food bear the declaration ``Includes `X'g Added Sugars''.
    This division may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2019''.

DIVISION D--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$113,535,000, of which not to exceed $3,001,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $1,040,000 shall 
be available for the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to 
exceed $20,428,000 shall be available for the Office of the General 
Counsel; not to exceed $10,265,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
$14,019,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,550,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,835,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,325,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; and not to 
exceed $16,686,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer:  Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all such transfers:  
Provided further, That notice of any change in funding greater than 5 
percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$60,000 shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
excluding fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited 
to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.

                        research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $8,471,000, of which $2,218,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until expended, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training:  
Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, judicial 
proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative Technology 
Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
Department of Transportation.

                  national infrastructure investments

    For capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall distribute funds 
provided under this heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a 
State, local government, transit agency, port authority, or a 
collaboration among such entities on a competitive basis for projects 
that will have a significant local or regional impact:  Provided 
further, That projects eligible for funding provided under this heading 
shall include, but not be limited to, highway or bridge projects 
eligible under title 23, United States Code; public transportation 
projects eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code; 
passenger and freight rail transportation projects; and port 
infrastructure investments (including inland port infrastructure and 
land ports of entry):  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, the Secretary may use an amount not to 
exceed $15,000,000 for the planning, preparation or design of projects 
eligible for funding under this heading:  Provided further, That grants 
awarded under the previous proviso shall not be subject to a minimum 
grant size:  Provided further, That the Secretary may use up to 20 
percent of the funds made available under this heading for the purpose 
of paying the subsidy and administrative costs of projects eligible for 
Federal credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, United States 
Code, or sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization and 
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, if the 
Secretary finds that such use of the funds would advance the purposes 
of this paragraph:  Provided further, That in distributing funds 
provided under this heading, the Secretary shall take such measures so 
as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution of funds, an 
appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and rural areas, 
and the investment in a variety of transportation modes:  Provided 
further, That a grant funded under this heading shall be not less than 
$5,000,000 and not greater than $25,000,000:  Provided further, That 
not more than 10 percent of the funds made available under this heading 
may be awarded to projects in a single State:  Provided further, That 
the Federal share of the costs for which an expenditure is made under 
this heading shall be, at the option of the recipient, up to 80 
percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall give priority to 
projects that require a contribution of Federal funds in order to 
complete an overall financing package:  Provided further, That not less 
than 30 percent of the funds provided under this heading shall be for 
projects located in rural areas:  Provided further, That for projects 
located in rural areas, the minimum grant size shall be $1,000,000 and 
the Secretary may increase the Federal share of costs above 80 percent: 
 Provided further, That projects conducted using funds provided under 
this heading must comply with the requirements of subchapter IV of 
chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall conduct a new competition to select the grants and 
credit assistance awarded under this heading:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may retain up to $25,000,000 of the funds provided under 
this heading, and may transfer portions of those funds to the 
Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal 
Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, and the 
Maritime Administration to fund the award and oversight of grants and 
credit assistance made under the National Infrastructure Investments 
program:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided in the 
previous proviso may be used to hire additional personnel:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall consider and award projects based 
solely on the selection criteria from the fiscal year 2016 Notice of 
Funding Opportunity:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
use the Federal share or an applicant's ability to generate non-Federal 
revenue as a selection criteria in awarding projects:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
Opportunity no later than 60 days after enactment of this Act:  
Provided further, That the Notice of Funding Opportunity shall require 
application submissions 90 days after the publishing of such Notice:  
Provided further, That of the applications submitted under the previous 
two provisos, the Secretary shall make grants no later than 270 days 
after enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary 
determines:  Provided further, That such sums provided for national 
infrastructure investments for passenger rail transportation projects 
under title I of division C of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55; 125 Stat. 641), shall 
remain available for expenditure through fiscal year 2019 for the 
liquidation of valid obligations of active grants incurred in fiscal 
year 2012:  Provided further, That such sums provided for national 
infrastructure investments for port infrastructure projects under title 
VIII of division F of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 432) shall remain 
available through fiscal year 2020 for the liquidation of valid 
obligations of active grants incurred in fiscal year 2013:  Provided 
further, That the 2 preceding provisos shall be applied as if they were 
in effect on September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That after 
calculating the distribution of obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
highways for fiscal year 2019 under section 120(a), the obligation 
limitation shall be reduced by $52,000,000 to a total of 
$45,216,596,000:  Provided further, That the reduction in the preceding 
proviso shall be applied to the obligation limitation determined under 
section 120(a)(4) for the TIFIA program (as defined in section 601(a) 
of title 23, United States Code).

     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

    For necessary expenses of the National Surface Transportation and 
Innovative Finance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116, $2,987,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department 
of Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $2,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2020.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to wide area network and information technology 
infrastructure, improvement of network perimeter controls and identity 
management, testing and assessment of information technology against 
business, security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure enhancements, 
and implementation of enhanced security controls on network devices, 
$15,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2020.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $9,470,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, $7,879,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
of such amount, $1,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses for the 
Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC):  
Provided further, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, 
to remain available until expended, amounts transferred from other 
Federal agencies for expenses incurred under this heading for IIPIC 
activities not related to transportation infrastructure:  Provided 
further, That the tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be 
available to other Federal agencies for the permitting and review of 
major infrastructure projects not related to transportation only to the 
extent that other Federal agencies provide funding to the Department as 
provided for under the previous proviso.

                          working capital fund

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $203,883,000, shall be paid 
from appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation: 
 Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

               minority business resource center program

    For necessary expenses of the Minority Business Resource Center, 
the provision of financial education outreach activities to eligible 
transportation-related small businesses, the monitoring of existing 
loans in the guaranteed loan program, and the modification of such 
loans of the Minority Business Resource Center, $249,000, as authorized 
by 49 U.S.C. 332:  Provided, That notwithstanding that section, these 
funds may be for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

    For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
utilization and outreach activities, $3,488,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
332, these funds may be used for business opportunities related to any 
mode of transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
determining between or among carriers competing to provide service to a 
community, the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements 
of the carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air service 
minimum requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity 
requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act or any 
other Act shall be used to enter into a new contract with a community 
located less than 40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before 
the Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
share:  Provided further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for 
the essential air service program under subsection 41742(b) of title 
49, United States Code, shall be made available immediately from 
amounts otherwise provided to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration:  Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse 
such amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be obligated for the Office of the 
Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or reimbursable 
agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 102.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of the Council 
on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for each meeting, and 
require the Council on Credit and Finance to record the decisions and 
actions of each meeting.
    Sec. 103.  In addition to authority provided by section 327 of 
title 49, United States Code, the Department's Working Capital Fund is 
hereby authorized to provide partial or full payments in advance and 
accept subsequent reimbursements from all Federal agencies from 
available funds for transit benefit distribution services that are 
necessary to carry out the Federal transit pass transportation fringe 
benefit program under Executive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of 
Public Law 109-59:  Provided, That the Department shall maintain a 
reasonable operating reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be 
expended in advance to provide uninterrupted transit benefits to 
Government employees:  Provided further, That such reserve will not 
exceed one month of benefits payable and may be used only for the 
purpose of providing for the continuation of transit benefits:  
Provided further, That the Working Capital Fund will be fully 
reimbursed by each customer agency from available funds for the actual 
cost of the transit benefit.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, the lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 
112-95, $10,410,758,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
of which $9,833,400,000 shall be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $7,843,427,000 shall be available 
for air traffic organization activities; not to exceed $1,334,377,000 
shall be available for aviation safety activities; not to exceed 
$24,981,000 shall be available for commercial space transportation 
activities; not to exceed $816,562,000 shall be available for finance 
and management activities; not to exceed $61,796,000 shall be available 
for NextGen and operations planning activities; not to exceed 
$114,312,000 shall be available for security and hazardous materials 
safety; and not to exceed $215,303,000 shall be available for staff 
offices:  Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any budget 
activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, may be 
transferred to any budget activity under this heading:  Provided 
further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any appropriation by 
more than 5 percent:  Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 
5 percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
405 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section:  Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal 
year hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to the 
report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 
of Public Law 108-176:  Provided further, That the amount herein 
appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after March 31 
that such report has not been submitted to the Congress:  Provided 
further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, 
the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report that 
describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, and training 
flight standards and aircraft certification staff in a format similar 
to the one utilized for the controller staffing plan, including stated 
attrition estimates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That funds may be 
used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
organization to assist in the development of aviation safety standards: 
 Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for new applicants for the second career training program:  
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for the Federal Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not 
specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
Act:  Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation, as offsetting collections, funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred in the provision 
of agency services, including receipts for the maintenance and 
operation of air navigation facilities, and for issuance, renewal or 
modification of certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair 
station certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing 
major repair or alteration forms:  Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $168,000,000 shall be 
used to fund direct operations of the current 254 air traffic control 
towers in the contract tower program, including the contract tower cost 
share program, and any airport that is currently qualified or that will 
qualify for the program during the fiscal year:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and cartography 
are available for activities conducted by, or coordinated through, the 
Working Capital Fund:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
may be used to eliminate the Contract Weather Observers program at any 
airport:  Provided  further, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, up to $6,000,000 shall be used for providing matching funds to 
qualified commercial entities seeking to demonstrate or validate 
technologies that the Federal Aviation Administration considers 
essential to the safe integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in 
the National Airspace System at Federal Aviation Administration 
designated UAS test sites:  Provided further, That not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall identify essential integration 
technologies that could be demonstrated or validated at test sites 
designated in accordance with the preceding proviso.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and 
experimental facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$3,000,000,000, of which $512,823,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020, $2,362,977,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021, and $124,200,000 shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in the 
establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems:  Provided further, That no later than March 31, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress an investment plan for 
the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $191,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, which shall be available for expenses 
incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other 
airport improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
47109(a) of title 49, United States Code, the Government's share of 
allowable project costs under paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph 
(3) of that section shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a 
large or medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the project sponsor received a 
grant in fiscal year 2011 for the construction project:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of funds 
limited under this heading, not more than $112,600,000 shall be 
available for administration, not less than $15,000,000 shall be 
available for the Airport Cooperative Research Program, not less than 
$33,210,000 shall be available for Airport Technology Research, and 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available and 
transferred to ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and Expenses'' to 
carry out the Small Community Air Service Development Program:  
Provided further, That in addition to airports eligible under section 
41743 of title 49, United States Code, such program may include the 
participation of an airport that serves a community or consortium that 
is not larger than a small hub airport, according to FAA hub 
classifications effective at the time the Office of the Secretary 
issues a request for proposals.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

    For an additional amount for ``Grants-In-Aid for Airports'', to 
enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants for projects as 
authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471 and subchapter 1 of chapter 
475 of title 49, United States Code, $750,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2021:  Provided, That amounts made available 
under this heading shall be derived from the general fund, and such 
funds shall not be subject to apportionment formulas, special 
apportionment categories, or minimum percentages under chapter 471:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall distribute funds provided 
under this heading as discretionary grants to airports:  Provided 
further, That the amount made available under this heading shall not be 
subject to any limitation on obligations for the Grants-in-Aid for 
Airports program set forth in any Act:  Provided further, That the 
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may retain up to 
0.5 percent of the funds provided under this heading to fund the award 
and oversight by the Administrator of grants made under this heading.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting:  Provided, That the prohibition 
of funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' 
rates for these items or to grant assurances that require airport 
sponsors to provide land without cost to the Federal Aviation 
Administration for air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) 
from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in 
such account at the close of that fiscal year may be made available to 
satisfy section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration without the prior written approval of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration of the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request 
to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking 
of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number from any 
display of the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Situational 
Display to Industry data that is made available to the public, except 
data made available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than eight political and Presidential 
appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United 
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Administration provides to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report that justifies 
all fees related to aeronautical navigation products and explains how 
such fees are consistent with Executive Order 13642.
    Sec. 119A.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to close a 
regional operations center of the Federal Aviation Administration or 
reduce its services unless the Administrator notifies the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 90 full business days 
in advance.
    Sec. 119B.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by this Act 
may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at 
Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.
    Sec. 119C.  None of the funds provided under this Act may be used 
by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to withhold 
from consideration and approval any new application for participation 
in the Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation of Cost-share 
Program participants, as long as the Federal Aviation Administration 
has received an application from the airport, and as long as the 
Administrator determines such tower is eligible using the factors set 
forth in the Federal Aviation Administration report, Establishment and 
Discontinuance Criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers (FAA-APO-90-
7 as of August, 1990).
    Sec. 119D.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be obligated or expended to limit 
the use of an Organization Designation Authorization's (ODA) delegated 
functions documented in its procedures manual on a type certification 
project unless the Administrator documents a systemic airworthiness 
noncompliance performance issue as a result of inspection or oversight 
that the safety of air commerce requires a limitation with regard to a 
specific authorization or where an ODA's capability has not been 
previously established in terms of a new compliance method or design 
feature:  Provided, That in such cases the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall work with the ODA holder if requested to develop 
the capability to execute that function safely, efficiently and 
effectively.
    Sec. 119E. (a) Terminal Aerodrome Forecast.--The Administrator 
shall permit an air carrier operation under part 121 of title 14, Code 
of Federal Regulations, to operate to a destination determined to be 
under visual flight rules without a Terminal Aerodrome Forecast or 
Meteorological Aerodrome Report if a current Area Forecast, 
supplemented by other local weather observations or reports, is 
available, and an alternate airport that has an available Terminal 
Aerodrome Forecast and weather report is specified. The air carrier 
shall have approved procedures for dispatch and en route weather 
evaluation and shall operate under instrument flight rules en route to 
the destination.
    (b) Limitation.--Without a written finding of necessity, based on 
objective and historical evidence of imminent threat to safety, the 
Administrator shall not promulgate any operation specification, policy, 
or guidance document that is more restrictive than, or requires 
procedures that are not expressly stated in, the regulations.
    Sec. 119F.  Of the funds provided under the heading ``Grants-in-aid 
for Airports'', up to $3,500,000 shall be for necessary expenses, 
including an independent verification regime, to provide reimbursement 
to airport sponsors that do not provide gateway operations and 
providers of general aviation ground support services located at those 
airports closed during a temporary flight restriction (TFR) for any 
residence of the President that is designated or identified to be 
secured by the United States Secret Service, and for direct and 
incremental financial losses incurred while such airports are closed 
solely due to the actions of the Federal Government:  Provided, That no 
funds shall be obligated or distributed to airport sponsors that do not 
provide gateway operations and providers of general aviation ground 
support services until an independent audit is completed:  Provided 
further, That losses incurred as a result of violations of law, or 
through fault or negligence, of such operators and service providers or 
of third parties (including airports) are not eligible for 
reimbursements:  Provided further, That obligation and expenditure of 
funds are conditional upon full release of the United States Government 
for all claims for financial losses resulting from such actions.

                    report on nextgen implementation

    Sec. 119G. (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a 
report on the implementation of NextGen at commercial service airports 
in the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) The number and percentage of commercial service 
        airports in the United States that have fully implemented 
        NextGen.
            (2) The percentage completion of NextGen implementation at 
        each commercial service airport in the United States.
    (c) Development of Standard to Determine Percentage Implementation 
of NextGen.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a standard 
        for determining under subsection (b)(2) the percentage 
        completion of NextGen implementation at commercial service 
        airports in the United States based on factors that may include 
        an accounting of efficiency benefits achieved, the degree of 
        NextGen technology and infrastructure installed, and the extent 
        of controller training on NextGen.
            (2) Inclusion in report.--The Administrator shall include 
        in the report submitted under subsection (a) the standard 
        developed under paragraph (1).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
            (2) Nextgen.--The term ``NextGen'' means the Next 
        Generation Air Transportation System.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $446,444,304, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses for administration and operation of 
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition, $3,248,000 shall be 
transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission in accordance with 
section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available for the implementation or execution of Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and the provisions of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act shall not exceed total obligations 
of $45,268,596,000 for fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United States 
Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, including 
counsel, in the field of municipal and project finance to assist in the 
underwriting and servicing of Federal credit instruments and all or a 
portion of the costs to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
instruments:  Provided further, That such fees are available until 
expended to pay for such costs:  Provided further, That such amounts 
are in addition to administrative expenses that are also available for 
such purpose, and are not subject to any obligation limitation or the 
limitation on administrative expenses under section 608 of title 23, 
United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under title 
23, United States Code, $46,007,596,000 derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
expended.

                    highway infrastructure programs

    There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation 
$3,300,000,000:  Provided, That the amounts made available under this 
heading shall be derived from the general fund, shall be in addition to 
any funds provided for fiscal year 2019 in this or any other Act for 
``Federal-aid Highways'' under chapter 1 of title 23, United States 
Code, and shall not affect the distribution or amount of funds provided 
in any other Act:  Provided further, That section 1101(b) of Public Law 
114-94 shall apply to funds made available under this heading:  
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$2,389,200,000 shall be set aside for activities eligible under section 
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code, $15,800,000 shall be set 
aside for activities eligible under the Puerto Rico Highway Program as 
described in section 165(b)(2)(C) of such title, $5,000,000 shall be 
set aside for activities eligible under the Territorial Highway 
Program, as described in section 165(c)(6) of such title, $90,000,000 
shall be set aside for the elimination of hazards and installation of 
protective devices at railway-highway crossings, as described in 
section 130(e)(1)(A) of such title, and $800,000,000 shall be set aside 
for a bridge replacement and rehabilitation program for States:  
Provided further, That for purposes of this heading, the term ``State'' 
means any of the 50 States or the District of Columbia:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
activities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United 
States Code, shall be suballocated in the manner described in section 
133(d) of such title, except that the set-aside described in section 
133(h) of such title shall not apply to funds made available under this 
heading:  Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading for (1) activities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of such 
title (2) the elimination of hazards and installation of protective 
devices at railway-highway crossings, and (3) a bridge replacement and 
rehabilitation program shall be administered as if apportioned under 
chapter 1 of such title and shall remain available through September 
30, 2022:  Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading for activities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, 
United States Code, shall be apportioned to the States in the same 
ratio as the obligation limitation for fiscal year 2019 is distributed 
among the States in section 120(a)(5) of this Act:  Provided further, 
That, except as provided in the following proviso, the funds made 
available under this heading for activities eligible under the Puerto 
Rico Highway Program and activities eligible under the Territorial 
Highway Program shall be administered as if allocated under sections 
165(b) and 165(c), respectively, of such title and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2022:  Provided further, That the funds 
made available under this heading for activities eligible under the 
Puerto Rico Highway Program shall not be subject to the requirements of 
sections 165(b)(2)(A) or 165(b)(2)(B) of such title:  Provided further, 
That the funds made available under this heading for the elimination of 
hazards and installation of protective devices at railway-highway 
crossings shall be apportioned to the States as described in sections 
130(f)(1) and (f)(2) of such title:  Provided further, That at least 
one-half of the funds made available to a State under this heading for 
the elimination of hazards and installation of protective devices at 
railway-highway crossings shall be available for the installation of 
protective devices at railway-highway crossings:  Provided further, 
That the funds made available under this heading for the elimination of 
hazards and installation of protective devices at railway-highway 
crossings shall be subject to the special rule described in section 
130(e)(2) of such title:  Provided further, That projects carried out 
with funds made available under this heading for the elimination of 
hazards and installation of protective devices at railway-highway 
crossings shall be (1) subject to sections 130(b), (c), and (j) of such 
title, (2) included in the annual report described in section 130(g) of 
such title, and (3) subject to the Federal share requirement described 
in section 130(f)(3) of such title:  Provided further, That the funds 
made available under this heading for the elimination of hazards and 
installation of protective devices at railway-highway crossings shall 
be (1) available for matching, as described in section 130(h) of such 
title, subject to the requirements of such section, (2) available for 
incentive payments, as described in section 130(i) of such title, 
subject to the requirements of such section, and (3) subject to the 
limitation in section 130(k) of such title:  Provided further, That the 
funds made available under this heading for a bridge replacement and 
rehabilitation program shall be used for highway bridge replacement or 
rehabilitation projects on public roads:  Provided further, That except 
as provided in the following proviso the funds made available under 
this heading for a bridge replacement and rehabilitation program shall 
be used in areas of a State that have a population of 200,000 or fewer 
individuals:  Provided further, That if a State has no bridges located 
in areas with a population of 200,000 or fewer individuals, or if a 
State has no bridge replacement or rehabilitation needs in areas of the 
State with a population of 200,000 or fewer individuals, the funds made 
available under this heading for a bridge replacement and 
rehabilitation program may be used for highway bridge replacement or 
rehabilitation projects on public roads in any area of the State:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall distribute funds made 
available under this heading for the bridge replacement and 
rehabilitation program to each State by the proportion that the 
percentage of total deck area of bridges classified as in poor 
condition in each State bears to the sum of the percentages of total 
deck area of bridges classified as in poor condition in all States:  
Provided further, That for purposes of this heading for the bridge 
replacement and rehabilitation program, the Secretary shall (1) 
calculate population based on the latest available data from the 
decennial census conducted under section 141(a) of title 13, United 
States Code, and (2) calculate the percentages of total deck area of 
bridges classified as in poor condition based on the National Bridge 
Inventory as of December 31, 2017.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highway and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                sections 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); 
                and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highway and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for provisions of law 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection 
                (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for section 
                119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such 
                fiscal year), less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
        programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
        Act and title 23, United States Code, or apportioned by the 
        Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of that title, by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
        construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
        under title 23, United States Code, (other than the amounts 
        apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
        section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned 
                under title 23, United States Code, to all States for 
                such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations 
under or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
        Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
        Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
        each of fiscal years 2013 through 2019, only in an amount equal 
        to $639,000,000).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such fiscal 
year--
            (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
        available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed cannot 
        be obligated during that fiscal year; and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
                    (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface 
                Transportation Act.
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal 
                years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds (excluding 
        funds authorized for the program under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highway programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
                to the States (or will not be apportioned to the States 
                under section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and 
                will not be available for obligation, for such fiscal 
                year because of the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for 
the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses:  Provided, 
That such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs.
    Sec. 122.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall make an 
informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to issue 
such waiver and the reasons therefor:  Provided, That the Secretary 
shall provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy America 
requirements.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds provided in this Act to the Department 
of Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance unless not 
less than 3 days before any application approval to provide credit 
assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives:  Provided, That such notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, the name of the project sponsor; a description of 
the project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a direct 
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the amount of credit 
assistance.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to make a 
grant for a project under section 117 of title 23, United States Code, 
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before making a grant under that 
section, provides written notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an 
evaluation and justification for the project and the amount of the 
proposed grant award:  Provided, That the written notification required 
in the previous proviso shall be made no later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 165 of 
title 23, United States Code, may use for any project eligible under 
section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23 and located 
within the boundary of the State or territory any earmarked amount, and 
any associated obligation limitation:  Provided, That the Department of 
Transportation for the State or territory for which the earmarked 
amount was originally designated or directed notifies the Secretary of 
Transportation of its intent to use its authority under this section 
and submits a quarterly report to the Secretary identifying the 
projects to which the funding would be applied. Notwithstanding the 
original period of availability of funds to be obligated under this 
section, such funds and associated obligation limitation shall remain 
available for obligation for a period of 3 fiscal years after the 
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Transportation is notified. The 
Federal share of the cost of a project carried out with funds made 
available under this section shall be the same as associated with the 
earmark.
    (b) In this section, the term ``earmarked amount'' means--
            (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
        XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration; or
            (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
        Rules of the House of Representatives identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration.
    (c) The authority under subsection (a) may be exercised only for 
those projects or activities that have obligated less than 10 percent 
of the amount made available for obligation as of October 1 of the 
current fiscal year, and shall be applied to projects within the same 
general geographic area within 50 miles for which the funding was 
designated, except that a State or territory may apply such authority 
to unexpended balances of funds from projects or activities the State 
or territory certifies have been closed and for which payments have 
been made under a final voucher.
    (d) The Secretary shall submit consolidated reports of the 
information provided by the States and territories each quarter to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations and 
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 49, United States Code, as 
amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$284,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account), together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of 
which shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for implementation, execution or administration of motor 
carrier safety operations and programs authorized under title 49, 
United States Code, shall not exceed total obligations of $284,000,000 
for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 
2019, of which $9,073,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021, is for the research and technology program, and of 
which $34,824,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2021, is for information management.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United States Code, as amended by 
the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $382,800,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for the implementation or execution of motor carrier safety 
programs shall not exceed total obligations of $382,800,000 in fiscal 
year 2019 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''; of which $304,300,000 
shall be available for the motor carrier safety assistance program, 
$32,500,000 shall be available for the commercial driver's license 
program implementation program, $44,000,000 shall be available for the 
high priority activities program, and $2,000,000 shall be made 
available for commercial motor vehicle operators grants, of which 
$1,000,000 is to be made available from prior year unobligated contract 
authority provided for Motor Carrier Safety grants in the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178), 
SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-59), or other appropriations or 
authorization acts.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130.  Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall be 
subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 of Public 
Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28.
    Sec. 131.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by certified mail, 
registered mail, or another manner of delivery, which records the 
receipt of the notice by the persons responsible for the violations.
    Sec. 132.  To the maximum extent practicable, the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration shall ensure the safe and timely 
completion of the flexible sleeper berth pilot program of the 
Administration.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, 
$190,000,000, of which $40,000,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2020.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, section 4011 of the FAST Act (Public Law 114-94), and 
chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, $152,100,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 
2019, are in excess of $152,100,000, of which $146,700,000 shall be for 
programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403 and $5,400,000 shall be for the 
National Driver Register authorized under chapter 303 of title 49, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That within the $152,100,000 
obligation limitation for operations and research, $20,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020, and shall be in addition to 
the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for future years.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, to remain available until 
expended, $610,208,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account):  Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2019, are in 
excess of $610,208,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act, of which $270,400,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402; $283,000,000 shall be for ``National 
Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $30,200,000 shall be 
for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 404; and 
$26,608,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' under section 
4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act:  
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used for 
construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private buildings or 
structures:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds 
made available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as described in 
subsection (d) of that section) shall be available for technical 
assistance to the States:  Provided further, That with respect to the 
``Transfers'' provision under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8), any amounts 
transferred to increase the amounts made available under section 402 
shall include the obligation authority for such amounts:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the authority granted 
under the previous proviso or under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code, to pay for 
travel and related expenses for State management reviews and to pay for 
core competency development training and related expenses for highway 
safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall 
not apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made 
available in previous public laws but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  In addition to the amounts made available under the 
heading, ``Operations and Research (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)'' for 
carrying out the provisions of section 403 of title 23, United States 
Code, $4,000,000 shall be available to continue a high visibility 
enforcement paid-media campaign regarding highway-rail grade crossing 
safety in collaboration with the Federal Railroad Administration.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $221,698,000, of which $15,900,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$40,600,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 
94-210), as amended, such authority shall exist as long as any such 
direct loan or loan guarantee is outstanding.

           federal-state partnership for state of good repair

    For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership for 
State of Good Repair Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, 
United States Code, $300,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
amount provided under this heading for the costs of award and project 
management oversight of grants carried out under section 24911 of title 
49, United States Code:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
issue the Notice of Funding Opportunity that encompasses funds provided 
under this heading in this Act and previously unawarded funds provided 
under this heading in fiscal year 2017 by Public Law 115-31 and fiscal 
year 2018 by Public Law 115-141, no later than 30 days after enactment 
of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall announce the 
selection of projects to receive awards for the funds in the previous 
proviso no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act.

        consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements

    For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail Infrastructure 
and Safety Improvements Grants, as authorized by section 24407 of title 
49, United States Code, $255,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That section 24405(f) of title 49, United States 
Code, shall not apply to projects for the implementation of positive 
train control systems otherwise eligible under section 24407(c)(1) of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That amounts available 
under this heading for projects selected for commuter rail passenger 
transportation may be transferred by the Secretary, after selection, to 
the appropriate agencies to be administered in accordance with chapter 
53 of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall not limit eligible projects from consideration for 
funding for planning, engineering, environmental, construction, and 
design elements of the same project in the same application:  Provided 
further, That unobligated balances remaining after 4 years from the 
date of enactment may be used for any eligible project under section 
24407(c) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the amount provided under 
this heading for the costs of award and project management oversight of 
grants carried out under section 24407 of title 49, United States Code: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
Opportunity that encompasses previously unawarded funds provided under 
this heading in fiscal year 2018 by Public Law 115-141 and funds 
provided under this heading in this Act no later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
announce the selection of projects to receive awards for the funds in 
the previous proviso no later than 120 days after enactment of this 
Act.

                      restoration and enhancement

    For necessary expenses related to Restoration and Enhancement 
Grants, as authorized by section 24408 of title 49, United States Code, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the funds provided under 
this heading to fund the costs of award and project management and 
oversight:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice 
of Funding Opportunity for funds provided under this heading no later 
than 30 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall announce the selection of projects to receive awards 
for the funds in the previous proviso no later than 120 days after 
enactment of this Act.

     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the Northeast Corridor as authorized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$650,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the funds provided 
under both this heading and the ``National Network Grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' heading to fund the costs of 
project management and oversight of activities authorized by section 
11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94:  Provided further, That in 
addition to the project management oversight funds authorized under 
section 11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94, the Secretary may 
retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this 
heading to fund expenses associated with the Northeast Corridor 
Commission established under section 24905 of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading and the ``National Network Grants to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation'' heading, not less than $50,000,000 shall be 
made available to bring Amtrak-served facilities and stations into 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act: Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available under this heading and the heading 
``National Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation'', not more than $500,000 may be made available to provide 
a discount of not less than 15 percent on passenger fares to veterans 
(as defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code).

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the National Network as authorized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$1,291,600,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading to fund expenses associated with the State-
Supported Route Committee established under section 24712 of title 49, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That at least $50,000,000 of the 
amount provided under this heading shall be available for the 
development, installation and operation of railroad safety technology, 
including the implementation of a positive train control system, on 
State-supported routes as defined under section 24102(13) of title 49, 
United States Code, on which positive train control systems are not 
required by law or regulation:  Provided further, That not less than 
$50,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading shall be for 
capital expenses related to safety improvements, maintenance, and the 
non-Federal match for discretionary Federal grant programs to enable 
continued passenger rail operations on long-distance routes (as defined 
in section 24102 of title 49, United States Code) on which Amtrak is 
the sole tenant of the host railroad and positive train control systems 
are not required by law (including regulations):  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided under this heading shall be used by 
Amtrak to give notice under subsection (a) or (b) of section 24706 of 
title 49, United States Code, with respect to long-distance routes (as 
defined in section 24102 of title 49, United States Code) on which 
Amtrak is the sole tenant of the host railroad and positive train 
control systems are not required by law (including regulations), or 
otherwise initiate discontinuance of, reduce the frequency of, suspend, 
or substantially alter the schedule or route of rail service on any 
portion of such route operated in fiscal year 2018, including 
implementation of service permitted by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 
49, United States Code, in lieu of rail service.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

    Sec. 150.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any overtime costs in excess 
of $35,000 for any individual employee:  Provided, That the President 
of Amtrak may waive the cap set in the previous proviso for specific 
employees when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system:  Provided 
further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act, a summary of all overtime payments incurred by the Corporation for 
2018 and the three prior calendar years:  Provided further, That such 
summary shall include the total number of employees that received 
waivers and the total overtime payments the Corporation paid to those 
employees receiving waivers for each month for 2018 and for the three 
prior calendar years.
    Sec. 151.  It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) long-distance passenger rail routes provide much-needed 
        transportation access for 4,700,000 riders in 325 communities 
        in 40 States and are particularly important in rural areas; and
            (2) long-distance passenger rail routes and services should 
        be sustained to ensure connectivity throughout the National 
        Network (as defined in section 24102 of title 49, United States 
        Code).

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $113,165,000:  Provided, That none of the funds provided 
or limited in this Act may be used to create a permanent office of 
transit security under this heading:  Provided further, That upon 
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2020 President's budget, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the annual 
report on New Starts, including proposed allocations for fiscal year 
2020.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 
5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $9,900,000,000, to be 
derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds available for 
the implementation or execution of programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 
5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, 
and 5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
Act, section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, shall not exceed total 
obligations of $9,939,380,030 in fiscal year 2019:  Provided further, 
That the Federal share of the cost of activities carried out under 49 
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 percent, except that if there 
is substantial public interest or benefit, the Secretary may approve a 
greater Federal share.

                     transit infrastructure grants

    For an additional amount for buses and bus facilities grants under 
section 5339 of title 49, United States Code, state of good repair 
grants under section 5337 of such title, high density state 
apportionments under section 5340(d) of such title, and the bus testing 
facilities under sections 5312 and 5318 of such title, $800,000,000 to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That $400,000,000 shall be 
available for grants as authorized under section 5339 of such title, of 
which $209,104,000 shall be available for the buses and bus facilities 
formula grants as authorized under section 5339(a) of such title, 
$161,446,000 shall be available for the buses and bus facilities 
competitive grants as authorized under section 5339(b) of such title, 
and $29,450,000 shall be available for the low or no emission grants as 
authorized under section 5339(c) of such title:  Provided further, That 
$362,000,000 shall be available for the state of good repair grants as 
authorized under section 5337 of such title:  Provided further, That 
$30,000,000 shall be available for the high density state 
apportionments as authorized under section 5340(d) of such title:  
Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be available for the bus 
testing facility as authorized under section 5318 of such title:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 5318(a) of such title, 
$6,000,000 shall be available for the operation and maintenance of bus 
testing facilities by institutions of higher education selected 
pursuant to section 5312(h) of such title:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with, or 
make a grant to, each institution of higher education selected pursuant 
to section 5312(h) of such title, to operate and maintain a facility to 
conduct the testing of low or no emission vehicle new bus models using 
the standards established pursuant to section 5318(e)(2) of such title: 
 Provided further, That the term ``low or no emission vehicle'' has the 
meaning given the term in section 5312(e)(6) of such title:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall pay 80 percent of the cost of testing 
a low or no emission vehicle new bus model at each selected institution 
of higher education:  Provided further, That the entity having the 
vehicle tested shall pay 20 percent of the cost of testing:  Provided 
further, That a low or no emission vehicle new bus model tested that 
receives a passing aggregate test score in accordance with the 
standards established under section 5318(e)(2) of such title, shall be 
deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of section 5318(e) of 
such title:  Provided further, That amounts made available by this 
heading shall be derived from the general fund:  Provided further, That 
the amounts made available under this heading shall not be subject to 
any limitation on obligations for transit programs set forth in any 
Act.

                   technical assistance and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000, of 
which up to $1,500,000 shall be for a cooperative agreement through 
which the Federal Transit Administration assists small-urban, rural and 
tribal public transit recipients and planning organizations with 
applied innovation and capacity-building:  Provided, That the 
assistance provided under this heading not duplicate the activities of 
49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49 U.S.C. 5312.

                       capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out fixed guideway capital 
investment grants under section 5309 of title 49, United States Code, 
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$2,552,687,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading, 
$1,315,670,000 shall be available for projects authorized under section 
5309(d) of title 49, United States Code, $543,500,000 shall be 
available for projects authorized under section 5309(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, $568,000,000 shall be available for projects 
authorized under section 5309(h) of title 49, United States Code, and 
$100,000,000 shall be available for projects authorized under section 
3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall continue to administer the capital 
investment grants program in accordance with the procedural and 
substantive requirements of section 5309 of title 49, United States 
Code, and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of Public Law 110-432, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
each specific project:  Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress to improve its safety 
management system in response to the Federal Transit Administration's 
2015 safety management inspection:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
Authority has placed the highest priority on those investments that 
will improve the safety of the system before approving such grants:  
Provided further, That the Secretary, in order to ensure safety 
throughout the rail system, may waive the requirements of section 
601(e)(1) of division B of Public Law 110-432.

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2018, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure, 
may be transferred to and administered under the most recent 
appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 162.  Of the unobligated amounts made available for fiscal 
years 2005 or prior fiscal years to ``Transit Formula Grants'', a total 
of $46,560,000 is hereby permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 163.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used for the implementation or furtherance of new policies detailed in 
the ``Dear Colleague'' letter distributed by the Federal Transit 
Administration to capital investment grant program project sponsors on 
June 29, 2018.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal activities on those portions of the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway Development Corporation, $36,000,000, to be derived from the 
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading, not 
less than $16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset renewal 
activities.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                        operations and training

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $149,442,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2020, of which $71,000,000 shall be for the operations of the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy, and of which $18,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for the maintenance and repair, 
equipment, and capital improvements at the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy:  Provided, That not later than January 12, 2020, the 
Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall transmit to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the annual report on 
sexual assault and sexual harassment at the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3507 of Public Law 110-
417:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $3,000,000 shall be for the Maritime Environment and 
Technology Assistance program authorized under section 50307 of title 
46, United States Code:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $7,000,000, shall remain available until 
expended for the Short Sea Transportation Program (America's Marine 
Highways) to make grants for the purposes authorized under sections 
55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That available balances under this heading for the Short Sea 
Transportation Program (America's Marine Highways) from prior year 
recoveries shall be available to carry out activities authorized under 
sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That from funds provided under the previous two provisos, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall make grants no later than 180 days 
after enactment of this Act in such amounts as the Secretary 
determines:  Provided further, That any unobligated balances available 
from previous appropriations for programs and activities supporting 
State Maritime Academies shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Maritime Administration, State Maritime Academy 
Operations'' and shall be made available for the same purposes.

                    state maritime academy operations

    For necessary expenses of operations, support and training 
activities for State Maritime Academies, $340,200,000, of which 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
maintenance, repair, life extension, and capacity improvement of 
National Defense Reserve Fleet training ships in support of State 
Maritime Academies, as well as other expenses related to training 
mariners, as determined by the Secretary, of which $300,000,000, to 
remain available until expended shall be for the National Security 
Multi-Mission Vessel Program, including funds for construction, 
planning, administration, and design of school ships, of which 
$2,400,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2020, for the 
Student Incentive Program, of which $1,800,000 shall remain available 
until expended for training ship fuel assistance, and of which 
$6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020, for direct 
payments for State Maritime Academies.

                     assistance to small shipyards

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under section 
54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by Public Law 113-
281, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in 
addition to any existing authority, the Maritime Administration is 
authorized to furnish utilities and services and make necessary repairs 
in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving 
Government property under control of the Maritime Administration:  
Provided, That payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That rental payments under any such 
lease, contract, or occupancy for items other than such utilities, 
services, or repairs shall be covered into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $23,710,000:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall issue a final rule to expand the 
applicability of comprehensive oil spill response plans within 45 days 
of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the amounts 
appropriated under this heading shall be reduced by $100,000 per day 
for each day that such rule has not been issued following the 
expiration of the period set forth in the previous proviso.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $58,000,000, of which $7,570,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees 
collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited in the general 
fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, to remain available until 
expended, funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, for reports publication and dissemination, and for travel 
expenses incurred in the performance of hazardous materials exemptions 
and approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$165,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which 
$23,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; 
of which $134,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; 
and of which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees collected under 49 
U.S.C. 60302 and deposited in the Underground Natural Gas Storage 
Facility Safety Account for the purpose of carrying out 49 U.S.C. 
60141:  Provided, That not less than $1,058,000 of the funds provided 
under this heading shall be for the one-call state grant program.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation specified in 49 U.S.C. 
5116, not more than $28,318,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021, from amounts made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 5128(b), 
and 5128(c):  Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not 
more than 4 percent of the amounts made available from this account 
shall be available to pay administrative costs:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 5128(b), or 
5128(c) shall be made available for obligation by individuals other 
than the Secretary of Transportation, or his or her designee.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $92,600,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, That the funds 
made available under this heading may be used to investigate, pursuant 
to section 41712 of title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or 
deceptive practices and unfair methods of competition by domestic and 
foreign air carriers and ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of 
domestic and foreign air carriers with respect to item (1) of this 
proviso.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    (b) During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations to 
the Department and its operating administrations shall be available for 
the purchase, maintenance, operation, and deployment of unmanned 
aircraft systems that advance the Department's, or its operating 
administrations', missions.
    (c) Any unmanned aircraft system purchased or procured by the 
Department prior to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed 
authorized.
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 183.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation:  Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 184.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for 
State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 
U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary grant unless the Secretary 
of Transportation notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project 
competitively selected to receive any discretionary grant award, letter 
of intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, line of credit 
commitment, or full funding grant agreement is announced by the 
Department or its modal administrations:  Provided, That the Secretary 
gives concurrent notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the emergency 
relief program:  Provided further, That no notification shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    (b) In addition to the notification required in subsection (a), 
none of the funds made available in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan guarantee, line of 
credit, cooperative agreement or discretionary grant unless the 
Secretary of Transportation provides the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a comprehensive list of all such loans, loan guarantees, 
lines of credit, cooperative agreement or discretionary grants that 
will be announced not less the 3 full business days before such 
announcement:  Provided, That the requirement to provide a list in this 
subsection does not apply to any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
emergency relief program:  Provided further, That no list shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 186.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 187.  Amounts made available in this or any prior Act that the 
Secretary determines represent improper payments by the Department of 
Transportation to a third-party contractor under a financial assistance 
award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments:  
        Provided, That amounts made available in this Act shall be 
        available until expended; and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
        of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002:  Provided, 
        That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) and 
        (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available:  
                Provided further, That where specific project or 
                accounting information associated with the improper 
                payment or payments is not readily available, the 
                Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which 
                shall be available for the purposes and period 
                associated with the account so credited; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts:  Provided further, That prior to the transfer 
                of any such recovery to an appropriations account, the 
                Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'' has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public 
                Law 107-300.
    Sec. 188.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if any funds 
provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a reprogramming 
action that requires notice to be provided to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, transmission of said reprogramming notice 
shall be provided solely to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, and said reprogramming action shall be approved or 
denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to 
other congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days following the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 189.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for 
the costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when 
such amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased 
to provide a direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 190.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 191.  The Department of Transportation may use funds provided 
by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract under title 49 
U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geographic, economic, or any other 
hiring preference not otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, 
regulation, policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a 
Federal Highway Administration or Federal Transit Administration grant 
from imposing such hiring preference on a contract or construction 
project with which the Department of Transportation is assisting, only 
if the grant recipient certifies the following:
            (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
        pool of readily available but unemployed individuals possessing 
        the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work that the 
        contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
            (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
        provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
        does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
        satisfy such hiring preference; and
            (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
        delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
        not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
        applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
        Transportation Improvement Program.
    Sec. 192.  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations and Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on efforts 
by the Department of Transportation to engage with local communities, 
metropolitan planning organizations, and regional transportation 
commissions on advancing data and intelligent transportation systems 
technologies and other smart cities solutions.
    Sec. 193.  The Secretary of Transportation shall consult with the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works to identify any 
existing authorities and any additional authorities that may be needed 
to leverage funds from Department of Transportation programs for 
purposes of inland waterway project costs.
    Sec. 194.  (a) Subject to subsections (c) and (d), none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Transportation by this or any other Act may be obligated or expended to 
enforce or require the enforcement of section 127(a) of title 23, 
United States Code, with respect to a segment described in paragraph 
(1) or (2) of subsection (b) if the segment is designated as a route of 
the Interstate System.
     (b) The segments referred to in subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) The William H. Natcher Parkway (to be designated as a 
        spur of Interstate Route 65) from Interstate Route 65 in 
        Bowling Green, Kentucky, to United States Route 60 in 
        Owensboro, Kentucky.
            (2) The Julian M. Carroll (Purchase) Parkway (to be 
        designated as Interstate Route 69) in the State of Kentucky 
        from the Tennessee State line to the interchange with 
        Interstate Route 24, near Calvert City, Kentucky.
    (c) Only a vehicle that could operate legally on a segment 
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b) before the date of 
designation of the segment as a route of the Interstate System may 
continue to operate on that segment, subject to the condition that, 
except as provided in subsection (d), the gross vehicle weight of such 
a vehicle shall not exceed 120,000 pounds.
    (d) Nothing in this section prohibits a State from issuing a permit 
for a nondivisible load or vehicle with a gross vehicle weight that 
exceeds 120,000 pounds.
    Sec. 195.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Transportation may be obligated or 
expended to implement, administer, or enforce the requirements of 
section 31137 of title 49, United States Code, or any regulation issued 
by the Secretary pursuant to such section, with respect to the use of 
electronic logging devices by operators of commercial motor vehicles, 
as defined in section 31132(1) of such title, transporting livestock, 
as defined in section 602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assistance 
Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
    Sec. 196. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Federal Transit Administration under this title to 
carry out sections 5307, 5311, 5337, and 5339 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be used in awarding a contract or subcontract to an 
entity on or after the date of enactment of this Act for the 
procurement of rolling stock for use in public transportation if the 
manufacturer of the rolling stock is incorporated in or has 
manufacturing facilities in the United States and receives support from 
the government of a country that--
            (1) is identified as a nonmarket economy country (as 
        defined in section 771(18) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
        1677(18))) as of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) was identified by the United States Trade 
        Representative in the most recent report required by section 
        182 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242) as a priority 
        foreign country under subsection (a)(2) of that section; and
            (3) is subject to monitoring by the Trade Representative 
        under section 306 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2416).
    (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with the 
obligations of the United States under international agreements.
    (c)(1) This section shall not apply to the award of a contract or 
subcontract made by a public transportation agency with a rail rolling 
stock manufacturer described in subsection (a) if the manufacturer 
produces rail rolling stock for an eligible public transportation 
agency through a contract executed prior to the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (2) A rail rolling stock manufacturer described in subsection (a) 
may not use funds provided under a contract or subcontract described in 
paragraph (1) to expand the manufacturer's production of rail rolling 
stock within the United States to an amount of rolling stock vehicles 
or railcars that is greater than the amount required under contractual 
obligations of the manufacturer as of the date of enactment of this Act 
including all options for additional rolling stock.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to funds 
that are not appropriated or otherwise made available to the Federal 
Transit Administration under this title.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2019''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the 
Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,898,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made available under 
this heading shall be available to the Secretary for official reception 
and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $556,000,000, of which $76,600,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, (and of which $25,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for the financial 
transformation initiative); $98,000,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the General Counsel, of which not less than $15,000,000 shall 
be for the Departmental Enforcement Center; $213,300,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Administration; $40,200,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer; 
$54,000,000 shall be available for the Office of Field Policy and 
Management; $20,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Procurement Officer; $3,600,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity; $4,300,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Business Transformation; and $46,00,000 
shall be available for the Office of the Chief Information Officer:  
Provided, That funds provided under this heading may be used for 
necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided 
for, including purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated under 
this heading may be used for advertising and promotional activities 
that directly support program activities funded in this title:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations quarterly written notification regarding 
the status of pending congressional reports:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall provide in electronic form all signed reports 
required by Congress:  Provided further, That not more than 10 percent 
of the funds made available under this heading for the Office of Chief 
Financial Officer for the financial transformation initiative may be 
obligated until the Secretary submits to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, for approval, a plan for expenditure that 
includes the financial and internal control capabilities to be 
delivered and the mission benefits to be realized, key milestones to be 
met, and the relationship between the proposed use of funds made 
available under this heading and the projected total cost and scope of 
the initiative.

                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses

                       public and indian housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public and 
Indian Housing, $222,000,000.

                   community planning and development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Community 
Planning and Development, $110,000,000.

                                housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Housing, 
$390,000,000, of which not less than $12,500,000 shall be for the 
Office of Recapitalization.

                    policy development and research

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development and Research, $26,000,000.

                   fair housing and equal opportunity

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair Housing 
and Equal Opportunity, $71,500,000.

            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead Hazard 
Control and Healthy Homes, $7,800,000.

                          working capital fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Fund''), 
pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts transferred, 
including reimbursements pursuant to section 7(f), to the Fund under 
this heading shall be available for Federal shared services used by 
offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion of any 
office or agency's printing, records management, space renovation, 
furniture, or supply services as the Secretary determines shall be 
derived from centralized sources made available by the Department to 
all offices and agencies and funded through the Fund:  Provided, That 
of the amounts made available in this title for salaries and expenses 
under the headings ``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support 
Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Government 
National Mortgage Association'', the Secretary shall transfer to the 
Fund such amounts, to remain available until expended, as are necessary 
to fund services, specified in the matter preceding the first proviso, 
for which the appropriation would otherwise have been available, and 
may transfer not to exceed an additional $5,000,000, in aggregate, from 
all such appropriations, to be merged with the Fund and to remain 
available until expended for any purpose under this heading:  Provided 
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be the only amounts available 
to each office or agency of the Department for the services, or portion 
of services, specified in the matter preceding the first proviso:  
Provided further, That with respect to the Fund, the authorities and 
conditions under this heading shall supplement the authorities and 
conditions provided under section 7(f).

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     tenant-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act'' herein), not 
otherwise provided for, $18,780,987,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the 
$4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading that shall be 
available on October 1, 2018), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be available on October 1, 2019:  Provided, That 
the amounts made available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) $20,520,000,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, from amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2019 funding 
        cycle shall provide renewal funding for each public housing 
        agency based on validated voucher management system (VMS) 
        leasing and cost data for the prior calendar year and by 
        applying an inflation factor as established by the Secretary, 
        by notice published in the Federal Register, and by making any 
        necessary adjustments for the costs associated with the first-
        time renewal of vouchers under this paragraph including tenant 
        protection and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers:  Provided 
        further, That none of the funds provided under this paragraph 
        may be used to fund a total number of unit months under lease 
        which exceeds a public housing agency's authorized level of 
        units under contract, except for public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration, which are instead 
        governed by the terms and conditions of their MTW agreements:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the extent 
        necessary to stay within the amount specified under this 
        paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this paragraph), 
        prorate each public housing agency's allocation otherwise 
        established pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
        except as provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing 
        agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method described 
        above, and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
        of their annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment 
        of this Act or March 1, 2019:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary may extend the notification period with the prior 
        written approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided further, That public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration shall be funded pursuant 
        to their MTW agreements and shall be subject to the same pro 
        rata adjustments under the previous provisos:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may offset public housing agencies' 
        calendar year 2019 allocations based on the excess amounts of 
        public housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, 
        including HUD-held programmatic reserves (in accordance with 
        VMS data in calendar year 2018 that is verifiable and 
        complete), as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
        That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall also be subject to the offset, as 
        determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the 
        single fund budget authority provisions of their MTW 
        agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2019 MTW funding 
        allocation:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall use any 
        offset referred to in the previous two provisos throughout the 
        calendar year to prevent the termination of rental assistance 
        for families as the result of insufficient funding, as 
        determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
        proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided further, 
        That up to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for 
        adjustments in the allocations for public housing agencies, 
        after application for an adjustment by a public housing agency 
        that experienced a significant increase, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers resulting from 
        unforeseen circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) 
        of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during the 
        previous 12-month period in order to be available to meet a 
        commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for 
        adjustments for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; and (4) for public 
        housing agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
        measures, as determined by the Secretary, would otherwise be 
        required to terminate rental assistance for families as a 
        result of insufficient funding:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $85,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
        for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
        demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
        8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
        Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
        request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, enhanced 
        vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act, Choice Neighborhood vouchers, 
        mandatory and voluntary conversions, and tenant protection 
        assistance including replacement and relocation assistance or 
        for project-based assistance to prevent the displacement of 
        unassisted elderly tenants currently residing in section 202 
        properties financed between 1959 and 1974 that are refinanced 
        pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as amended, or under the 
        authority as provided under this Act:  Provided, That when a 
        public housing development is submitted for demolition or 
        disposition under section 18 of the Act, the Secretary may 
        provide section 8 rental assistance when the units pose an 
        imminent health and safety risk to residents:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may only provide replacement 
        vouchers for units that were occupied within the previous 24 
        months that cease to be available as assisted housing, subject 
        only to the availability of funds:  Provided further, That of 
        the amounts made available under this paragraph, $5,000,000 may 
        be available to provide tenant protection assistance, not 
        otherwise provided under this paragraph, to residents residing 
        in low vacancy areas and who may have to pay rents greater than 
        30 percent of household income, as the result of: (A) the 
        maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or section 202 loan that 
        requires the permission of the Secretary prior to loan 
        prepayment; (B) the expiration of a rental assistance contract 
        for which the tenants are not eligible for enhanced voucher or 
        tenant protection assistance under existing law; or (C) the 
        expiration of affordability restrictions accompanying a 
        mortgage or preservation program administered by the Secretary: 
         Provided further, That such tenant protection assistance made 
        available under the previous proviso may be provided under the 
        authority of section 8(t) or section 8(o)(13) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)):  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall issue guidance to implement 
        the previous provisos, including, but not limited to, 
        requirements for defining eligible at-risk households within 60 
        days of the enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That any 
        tenant protection voucher made available from amounts under 
        this paragraph shall not be reissued by any public housing 
        agency, except the replacement vouchers as defined by the 
        Secretary by notice, when the initial family that received any 
        such voucher no longer receives such voucher, and the authority 
        for any public housing agency to issue any such voucher shall 
        cease to exist:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
        provide section 8 rental assistance from amounts made available 
        under this paragraph for units assisted under a project-based 
        subsidy contract funded under the ``Project-Based Rental 
        Assistance'' heading under this title where the owner has 
        received a Notice of Default and the units pose an imminent 
        health and safety risk to residents:  Provided further, That to 
        the extent that the Secretary determines that such units are 
        not feasible for continued rental assistance payments or 
        transfer of the subsidy contract associated with such units to 
        another project or projects and owner or owners, any remaining 
        amounts associated with such units under such contract shall be 
        recaptured and used to reimburse amounts used under this 
        paragraph for rental assistance under the preceding proviso;
            (3) $1,956,987,000 shall be for administrative and other 
        expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
        to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate 
        to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees associated 
        with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance, the 
        administration of disaster related vouchers, HUD-VASH vouchers, 
        and other special purpose incremental vouchers:  Provided, That 
        no less than $1,926,987,000 of the amount provided in this 
        paragraph shall be allocated to public housing agencies for the 
        calendar year 2019 funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the 
        Act (and related Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect 
        immediately before the enactment of the Quality Housing and 
        Work Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276):  Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
        under this heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special 
        purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
        amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That all public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
        be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and shall be 
        subject to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the 
        previous proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided 
        under this paragraph shall be only for activities related to 
        the provision of tenant-based rental assistance authorized 
        under section 8, including related development activities;
            (4) $154,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
        contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
        administrative expenses:  Provided, That administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be funded 
        under the same terms and be subject to the same pro rata 
        reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and other 
        expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) of this 
        heading:  Provided further, That any amounts provided under 
        this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, remaining available 
        after funding renewals and administrative expenses under this 
        paragraph, shall be available for incremental tenant-based 
        assistance contracts under such section 811, including 
        necessary administrative expenses;
            (5) $5,000,000 shall be for rental assistance and 
        associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VASH to serve 
        Native American veterans that are homeless or at-risk of 
        homelessness living on or near a reservation or other Indian 
        areas:  Provided, That such amount shall be made available for 
        renewal grants to recipients that received assistance under 
        prior Acts under the Tribal HUD-VASH program:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to specify 
        criteria for renewal grants, including data on the utilization 
        of assistance reported by grant recipients:  Provided further, 
        That such assistance shall be administered in accordance with 
        program requirements under the Native American Housing 
        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 and modeled after 
        the HUD-VASH program:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
        shall be authorized to waive, or specify alternative 
        requirements for any provision of any statute or regulation 
        that the Secretary administers in connection with the use of 
        funds made available under this paragraph (except for 
        requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor 
        standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the 
        Secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are 
        necessary for the effective delivery and administration of such 
        assistance:  Provided further, That grant recipients shall 
        report to the Secretary on utilization of such rental 
        assistance and other program data, as prescribed by the 
        Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
        reallocate, as determined by the Secretary, amounts returned or 
        recaptured from awards under prior acts;
            (6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental voucher assistance 
        for use through a supported housing program administered in 
        conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs as 
        authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937:  Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development shall make such funding available, notwithstanding 
        section 203 (competition provision) of this title, to public 
        housing agencies that partner with eligible VA Medical Centers 
        or other entities as designated by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical need for 
        such assistance as identified by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, public housing agency 
        administrative performance, and other factors as specified by 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development may waive, or specify alternative requirements for 
        (in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs), any provision of any statute or regulation 
        that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development administers 
        in connection with the use of funds made available under this 
        paragraph (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
        nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon 
        a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
        requirements are necessary for the effective delivery and 
        administration of such voucher assistance:  Provided further, 
        That assistance made available under this paragraph shall 
        continue to remain available for homeless veterans upon turn-
        over;
            (7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for new incremental 
        voucher assistance through the family unification program as 
        authorized by section 8(x) of the Act:  Provided, That the 
        assistance made available under this paragraph shall continue 
        to remain available for family unification upon turnover:  
        Provided further, That for any public housing agency 
        administering voucher assistance appropriated in a prior Act 
        under the family unification program that determines that it no 
        longer has an identified need for such assistance upon 
        turnover, such agency shall notify the Secretary, and the 
        Secretary shall recapture such assistance from the agency and 
        reallocate it to any other public housing agency or agencies 
        based on need for voucher assistance in connection with such 
        program; and
            (8) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
        purpose vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2019 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have been 
terminated shall be rescinded:  Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section 8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 
1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes set forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available.

                      public housing capital fund

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital 
and management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized 
under section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g) (the ``Act'') $2,775,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law or regulation, during fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department official other 
than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for Public and 
Indian Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of section 9(j) 
regarding the extension of the time periods under such section:  
Provided further, That for purposes of such section 9(j), the term 
``obligate'' means, with respect to amounts, that the amounts are 
subject to a binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately 
or in the future:  Provided further, That up to $14,000,000 shall be to 
support ongoing public housing financial and physical assessment 
activities:  Provided further, That up to $1,000,000 shall be to 
support the costs of administrative and judicial receiverships:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
not to exceed $25,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
grants, notwithstanding section 203 of this Act, to public housing 
agencies for emergency capital needs including safety and security 
measures necessary to address crime and drug-related activity as well 
as needs resulting from unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and 
natural disasters excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and 
natural disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2019:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under the previous 
proviso, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for safety and security 
measures:  Provided further, That in addition to the amount in the 
previous proviso for such safety and security measures, any amounts 
that remain available, after all applications received on or before 
September 30, 2020, for emergency capital needs have been processed, 
shall be allocated to public housing agencies for such safety and 
security measures:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, up to $35,000,000 shall be for supportive services, 
service coordinators and congregate services as authorized by section 
34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American Housing 
Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): 
 Provided further, That of the total amount made available under this 
heading, $15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after 
the Jobs-Plus demonstration:  Provided further, That funding provided 
under the previous proviso shall be available for competitive grants to 
partnerships between public housing authorities, local workforce 
investment boards established under section 107 of the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other 
agencies and organizations that provide support to help public housing 
residents obtain employment and increase earnings:  Provided further, 
That applicants must demonstrate the ability to provide services to 
residents, partner with workforce investment boards, and leverage 
service dollars:  Provided further, That the Secretary may allow public 
housing agencies to request exemptions from rent and income limitation 
requirements under sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a and 1437d), as necessary to implement the Jobs-
Plus program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may approve 
upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
requirements are necessary for the effective implementation of the 
Jobs-Plus initiative as a voluntary program for residents:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal 
Register any waivers or alternative requirements pursuant to the 
preceding proviso no later than 10 days before the effective date of 
such notice:  Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 
percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the limitation 
in the previous proviso to allow public housing agencies to fund 
activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the Act:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
requesting waivers under the previous proviso if the request is 
approved or denied within 14 days of submitting the request:  Provided 
further, That from the funds made available under this heading, the 
Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2019 to public 
housing agencies that are designated high performers:  Provided 
further, That the Department shall notify public housing agencies of 
their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$25,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants to public housing 
agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards in public 
housing by carrying out the activities of risk assessments, abatement, 
and interim controls (as those terms are defined in section 1004 of the 
Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
4851b)):  Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, 
a grant under the previous proviso shall be considered funds for 
projects or activities under title I of the United States Housing Act 
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for purposes of section 26 of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to the regulations implementing 
such section.

                     public housing operating fund

    For 2019 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,756,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified under this heading), for 
transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both 
public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with 
appropriate services, schools, public assets, transportation and access 
to jobs, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That grant funds may be used for resident and community 
services, community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed properties to 
affordable housing:  Provided further, That the use of funds made 
available under this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
grantees shall commit to an additional period of affordability 
determined by the Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided 
further, That grantees shall provide a match in State, local, other 
Federal or private funds:  Provided further, That grantees may include 
local governments, tribal entities, public housing authorities, and 
nonprofits:  Provided further, That for-profit developers may apply 
jointly with a public entity:  Provided further, That for purposes of 
environmental review, a grantee shall be treated as a public housing 
agency under section 26 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this heading shall be subject to the 
regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such section:  
Provided further, That of the amount provided, not less than 
$50,000,000 shall be awarded to public housing agencies:  Provided 
further, That such grantees shall create partnerships with other local 
organizations including assisted housing owners, service agencies, and 
resident organizations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
consult with the Secretaries of Education, Labor, Transportation, 
Health and Human Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the Attorney 
General, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
to coordinate and leverage other appropriate Federal resources:  
Provided further, That no more than $5,000,000 of funds made available 
under this heading may be provided as grants to undertake comprehensive 
local planning with input from residents and the community:  Provided 
further, That unobligated balances, including recaptures, remaining 
from funds appropriated under the heading ``Revitalization of Severely 
Distressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior 
fiscal years may be used for purposes under this heading, 
notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were appropriated:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
Availability for funds made available under this heading no later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall make grant awards no later than one year from the date 
of enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary determines: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v(o)), the Secretary may, 
until September 30, 2019, obligate any available unobligated balances 
made available under this heading in this, or any prior Act.

                        family self-sufficiency

    For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family self-
sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937, to promote the development of local strategies to 
coordinate the use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act 
with public and private resources, and enable eligible families to 
achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency, $80,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify alternative 
requirements under subsections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 
of such Act in order to facilitate the operation of a unified self-
sufficiency program for individuals receiving assistance under 
different provisions of the Act, as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided further, That owners of a privately owned multifamily property 
with a section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such property 
in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That such procedures established pursuant to the previous 
proviso shall permit participating tenants to accrue escrow funds in 
accordance with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding 
from residual receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own 
Family Self-Sufficiency program.

                  native american housing block grants

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), 
$655,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding NAHASDA, to determine the amount of the 
allocation under title I of such Act for each Indian tribe, the 
Secretary shall apply the formula under section 302 of such Act with 
the need component based on single-race census data and with the need 
component based on multi-race census data, and the amount of the 
allocation for each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the two 
resulting allocation amounts:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading, $7,000,000 shall be for providing 
training and technical assistance to Indian housing authorities and 
tribally designated housing entities, to support the inspection of 
Indian housing units, contract expertise, and for training and 
technical assistance related to funding provided under this heading and 
other headings under this Act for the needs of Native American families 
and Indian country:  Provided further, That amounts made available 
under the previous proviso may be used, contracted, or competed as 
determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for the 
cost of guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by title 
VI of NAHASDA:  Provided further, That such costs, including the costs 
of modifying such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize the total 
principal amount of any notes and other obligations, any part of which 
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $17,761,989:  Provided further, That 
the Department will notify grantees of their formula allocation within 
60 days of the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That 
for an additional amount for the Native American Housing Block Grants 
program, as authorized under title I of NAHASDA, $100,000,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2023:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall obligate this additional amount for competitive grants 
to eligible recipients authorized under NAHASDA that apply for funds:  
Provided further, That in awarding this additional amount, the 
Secretary shall consider need and administrative capacity, and shall 
give priority to projects that will spur construction and 
rehabilitation:  Provided further, That up to 1 percent of this 
additional amount may be transferred, in aggregate, to ``Program Office 
Salaries and Expenses--Public and Indian Housing'' for necessary costs 
of administering and overseeing the obligation and expenditure of this 
additional amount:  Provided further, That any funds transferred 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall remain available until September 
30, 2024.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a), $1,440,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
$553,846,154, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That up to $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
expenses including management processes and systems to carry out the 
loan guarantee program.

                  native hawaiian housing block grant

    For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program, as authorized 
under title VIII of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $2,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 812(b) of such Act, the Department of Hawaiian 
Home Lands may not invest grant amounts provided under this heading in 
investment securities and other obligations:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading in this and prior fiscal 
years may be used to provide rental assistance to eligible Native 
Hawaiian families both on and off the Hawaiian Home Lands, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901 et seq.), $375,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2020, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(5) of 
such Act shall remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(5) 
of such Act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 
2010 and prior fiscal years that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts under such section:  Provided further, 
That the Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For assistance to units of State and local government, and to other 
entities, for economic and community development activities, and for 
other purposes, $3,365,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021, unless otherwise specified:  Provided, That of the total amount 
provided, $3,300,000,000 is for carrying out the community development 
block grant program under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq.):  Provided further, That unless explicitly provided for 
under this heading, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended for planning 
and management development and administration:  Provided further, That 
a metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local government, 
Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or indirectly receives 
funds under this heading may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all 
or any portion of such funds to another such entity in exchange for any 
other funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such 
funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of the Act, no funds 
provided under this heading may be provided to a for-profit entity for 
an economic development project under section 105(a)(17) unless such 
project has been evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines 
required under subsection (e)(2):  Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading, $65,000,000 shall be for grants to 
Indian tribes notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of which, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 203 of 
this Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for emergencies that constitute 
imminent threats to health and safety.

         community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2019, commitments to guarantee loans under section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a total 
principal amount of $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108:  Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees from 
borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such section 108, to 
result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, 
and any such fees shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $1,362,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
Provided, That notwithstanding the amount made available under this 
heading, the threshold reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 
217(b)(4) of such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program, 
as authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program 
Extension Act of 1996, as amended, $54,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-
Help Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under section 11 
of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$35,000,000 shall be made available for the second, third, and fourth 
capacity building activities authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD 
Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than 
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural capacity building 
activities:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for capacity building 
by national rural housing organizations with experience assessing 
national rural conditions and providing financing, training, technical 
assistance, information, and research to local nonprofits, local 
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high need rural communities:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$4,000,000, shall be made available for a program to rehabilitate and 
modify the homes of disabled or low-income veterans, as authorized 
under section 1079 of Public Law 113-291:  Provided further, That funds 
provided under the previous proviso shall be awarded within 180 days of 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That funds provided for such 
program in fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018 shall be awarded within 60 
days of enactment of this Act.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
as amended; the Continuum of Care program as authorized under subtitle 
C of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
program as authorized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, 
$2,612,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That any rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under 
such Continuum of Care program shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That not less than $270,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for such Emergency 
Solutions Grants program:  Provided further, That not less than 
$2,205,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for such Continuum of Care and Rural Housing Stability 
Assistance programs:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall be made available 
for grants for rapid re-housing projects and supportive service 
projects providing coordinated entry, and for eligible activities the 
Secretary determines to be critical in order to assist survivors of 
domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking:  Provided further, 
That such projects shall be eligible for renewal under the continuum of 
care program subject to the same terms and conditions as other renewal 
applicants:  Provided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for the national 
homeless data analysis project:  Provided further, That all funds 
awarded for supportive services under the Continuum of Care program and 
the Rural Housing Stability Assistance program shall be matched by not 
less than 25 percent in cash or in kind by each grantee:  Provided 
further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds made 
available under this heading for this fiscal year and prior fiscal 
years, a grantee may use (or could have used) as a source of match 
funds other funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal 
agencies unless there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibition on 
any such use of any such funds:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall collect system performance measures for each continuum of care, 
and that relative to fiscal year 2015, under the Continuum of Care 
competition with respect to funds made available under this heading, 
the Secretary shall base an increasing share of the score on 
performance criteria:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be available to provide funding for 
new projects, except for projects created through reallocation, unless 
the Secretary determines that the continuum of care has demonstrated 
that projects are evaluated and ranked based on the degree to which 
they improve the continuum of care's system performance:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall prioritize funding under the 
Continuum of Care program to continuums of care that have demonstrated 
a capacity to reallocate funding from lower performing projects to 
higher performing projects:  Provided further, That all awards of 
assistance under this heading shall be required to coordinate and 
integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, social 
services, and employment programs for which homeless populations may be 
eligible:  Provided further, That any unobligated amounts remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading in fiscal year 2012 and 
prior years for project-based rental assistance for rehabilitation 
projects with 10-year grant terms may be used for purposes under this 
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for Shelter Plus 
Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care Renewal 
account and transferred to this account shall be available, if 
recaptured, for Continuum of Care renewals in fiscal year 2019:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation from amounts allocated (which may represent initial 
or final amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That up to 
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be to 
implement projects to demonstrate how a comprehensive approach to 
serving homeless youth, age 24 and under, in up to 25 communities, 
including at least five communities with substantial rural populations, 
can dramatically reduce youth homelessness:  Provided further, That of 
the amount made available under the previous proviso, up to $5,000,000 
shall be available to provide technical assistance on youth 
homelessness, and collection, analysis, and reporting of data and 
performance measures under the comprehensive approaches to serve 
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordination with other technical 
assistance funds provided under this title:  Provided further, That 
such projects shall be eligible for renewal under the continuum of care 
program subject to the same terms and conditions as other renewal 
applicants:  Provided further, That youth aged 24 and under seeking 
assistance under this heading shall not be required to provide third 
party documentation to establish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 
11302(a) or (b) to receive services:  Provided further, That 
unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under or families headed by youth aged 
24 and under who are living in unsafe situations may be served by 
youth-serving providers funded under this heading.

                            Housing Programs

                    project-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$11,347,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2018), 
and $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2019:  Provided, That the amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for expiring or 
terminating section 8 project-based subsidy contracts (including 
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 
8 project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to 
section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11401), for renewal of section 8 contracts for units in projects that 
are subject to approved plans of action under the Emergency Low Income 
Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation 
and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and 
other expenses associated with project-based activities and assistance 
funded under this paragraph:  Provided further, That of the total 
amounts provided under this heading, not to exceed $245,000,000 shall 
be available for performance-based contract administrators for section 
8 project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f):  
Provided further, That the Secretary may also use such amounts in the 
previous proviso for performance-based contract administrators for the 
administration of: interest reduction payments pursuant to section 
236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent 
supplement payments pursuant to section 101 of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2) rental 
assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); project rental 
assistance contracts for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the 
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental assistance 
contracts for supportive housing for persons with disabilities under 
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pursuant to 
section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 
667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667):  Provided further, That amounts recaptured 
under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for Assisted 
Housing'', or the heading ``Housing Certificate Fund'', may be used for 
renewals of or amendments to section 8 project-based contracts or for 
performance-based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes 
for which such amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of the 
Secretary, project funds that are held in residual receipts accounts 
for any project subject to a section 8 project-based Housing Assistance 
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing Finance Agency to 
require that surplus project funds be deposited in an interest-bearing 
residual receipts account and that are in excess of an amount to be 
determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and 
deposited in this account, to be available until expended:  Provided 
further, That amounts deposited pursuant to the previous proviso shall 
be available in addition to the amount otherwise provided by this 
heading for uses authorized under this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, for project rental assistance for 
the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments 
to contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior preservation rental 
assistance contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 
811(e) of the American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as 
amended, and for supportive services associated with the housing, 
$678,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That of the amount provided under this heading, up to $90,000,000 shall 
be for service coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate 
service grants for residents of assisted housing projects:  Provided 
further, That amounts under this heading shall be available for Real 
Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related activities 
associated with section 202 projects:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive the provisions of section 202 governing the terms 
and conditions of project rental assistance, except that the initial 
contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration: 
 Provided further, That upon request of the Secretary, project funds 
which are held in residual receipts accounts for any project subject to 
a section 202 project rental assistance contract and, upon termination 
of such contract, are in excess of an amount to be determined by the 
Secretary shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this 
account, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided 
further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be available, in addition to the amounts 
otherwise provided by this heading, for amendments and renewals:  
Provided further, That unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for amendments and renewals 
notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds originally were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000, shall be for a program to be 
established by the Secretary to make grants to experienced non-profit 
organizations, States, local governments, or public housing agencies 
for safety and functional home modification repairs to meet the needs 
of low-income elderly persons to enable them to remain in their primary 
residence:  Provided further, That of the total amount made available 
under the previous proviso, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available 
to meet such needs in communities with substantial rural populations.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

    For amendments to capital advance contracts, for supportive housing 
for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), as 
amended, for project rental assistance for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act, for 
project assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing 
Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), including amendments to 
contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for project rental assistance 
to State housing finance agencies and other appropriate entities as 
authorized under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of 
such Act, $154,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for Real Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-
related activities associated with section 811 projects:  Provided 
further, That, upon the request of the Secretary, project funds which 
are held in residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a 
section 811 project rental assistance contract and, upon termination of 
such contract, are in excess of an amount to be determined by the 
Secretary shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this 
account, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided 
further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be available in addition to the amounts 
otherwise provided by this heading for amendments and renewals:  
Provided further, That unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or appropriated under 
this heading shall be used for amendments and renewals notwithstanding 
the purposes for which such funds originally were appropriated.

                     housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968, as amended, $45,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2020, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract 
services:  Provided, That grants made available from amounts provided 
under this heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current and 
prospective, with respect to property maintenance, financial management 
or literacy, and such other matters as may be appropriate to assist 
them in improving their housing conditions, meeting their financial 
needs, and fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; 
for program administration; and for housing counselor training:  
Provided further, That for purposes of providing such grants from 
amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements, as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

                       rental housing assistance

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236(f)(2) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) in State-aided, 
noninsured rental housing projects, $5,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such amount, together with unobligated 
balances from recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading after fiscal year 2005, 
shall also be available for extensions of up to one year for expiring 
contracts under such sections of law.

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 
et seq.), up to $12,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $12,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees 
Trust Fund:  Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be available from the general fund of the 
Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations and make 
expenditures pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act:  Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during fiscal year 2019 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to section 620 of such Act shall 
be modified as necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2019 
appropriation:  Provided further, That for the dispute resolution and 
installation programs, the Secretary may assess and collect fees from 
any program participant:  Provided further, That such collections shall 
be deposited into the Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein, may 
use such collections, as well as fees collected under section 620 of 
such Act, for necessary expenses of such Act:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 of such Act, the 
Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the Secretary under such 
Act through the use of approved service providers that are paid 
directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That during 
fiscal year 2019, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed $1,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
amount in the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
governmental entities in connection with sales of single family real 
properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual 
Mortgage Insurance Fund:  Provided further, That for administrative 
contract expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That 
to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on or 
before April 1, 2019, an additional $1,400 for administrative contract 
expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $30,000,000:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
limitation in the first sentence of section 255(g) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), during fiscal year 2019 the 
Secretary may insure and enter into new commitments to insure mortgages 
under section 255 of the National Housing Act only to the extent that 
the net credit subsidy cost for such insurance does not exceed zero:  
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary shall not 
take any action against a lender solely on the basis of compare ratios 
that have been adversely affected by defaults on mortgages secured by 
properties in areas where a major disaster was declared in 2017 or 2018 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2019, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, 
and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $1,000,000, 
which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That $27,000,000 shall be available for 
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government National 
Mortgage Association:  Provided further, That to the extent that 
guaranteed loan commitments exceed $155,000,000,000 on or before April 
1, 2019, an additional $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall 
be available until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided further, That receipts from 
Commitment and Multiclass fees collected pursuant to title III of the 
National Housing Act, as amended, shall be credited as offsetting 
collections to this account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including 
carrying out the functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1968, and for technical assistance, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That with respect to amounts made 
available under this heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this 
title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with 
philanthropic entities, other Federal agencies, State or local 
governments and their agencies, or colleges or universities for 
research projects:  Provided further, That with respect to the previous 
proviso, such partners to the cooperative agreements must contribute at 
least a 50 percent match toward the cost of the project:  Provided 
further, That for non-competitive agreements entered into in accordance 
with the previous two provisos, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding 
Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 
U.S.C. note) in lieu of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with 
respect to documentation of award decisions:  Provided further, That 
prior to obligation of technical assistance funding, the Secretary 
shall submit a plan, for approval, to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations on how it will allocate funding for this activity:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this heading 
may be available for the doctoral dissertation research grant program.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$65,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training Academy, 
and may use such funds to provide such training:  Provided further, 
That no funds made available under this heading shall be used to lobby 
the executive or legislative branches of the Federal Government in 
connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan:  Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $300,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for the 
creation and promotion of translated materials and other programs that 
support the assistance of persons with limited English proficiency in 
utilizing the services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by section 
1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 
$260,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, of which 
$45,000,000 shall be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, 
which shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards:  Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant to the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
provisions of law that further the purposes of such Act, a grant under 
the Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies program 
under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such purposes 
under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a special 
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing 
Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994:  Provided further, That not 
less than $95,000,000 of the amounts made available under this heading 
for the award of grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Residential 
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 shall be provided to 
areas with the highest lead-based paint abatement needs:  Provided 
further, That $45,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be for the implementation of projects to demonstrate how 
intensive, extended multi-year interventions can dramatically reduce 
the presence of lead-based paint hazards in communities containing high 
concentrations of both pre-1940 housing and low-income families by 
achieving economies of scale that substantially reduce the cost of 
lead-based paint remediation activities and administrative costs for 
grantees:  Provided further, That such projects in each of five 
communities shall be for five years and serve no more than four 
contiguous census tracts in which there are high concentrations of 
housing stock built before 1940, in which low-income families with 
children make up a significantly higher proportion of the population as 
compared to the State average, and that are located in jurisdictions in 
which instances of elevated blood lead levels reported to the State are 
significantly higher than the State average:  Provided further, That 
funding awarded for such projects shall be made available for draw down 
contingent upon the grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity, and 
grant compliance benchmarks established by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That each recipent of funds for such projects shall contribute 
an amount not less than 10 percent of the total award, and that the 
Secretary shall give priority to applicants that secure commitments for 
additional contributions from public and private sources:  Provided 
further, That grantees currently receiving grants made under this 
heading shall be eligible to apply for such projects, provided that 
they are deemed to be in compliance with program requirements 
established by the Secretary:  Provided further, That each applicant 
shall certify adequate capacity that is acceptable to the Secretary to 
carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a notice of funding 
availability:  Provided further, That amounts made available under this 
heading in this or prior appropriations Acts, still remaining 
available, may be used for any purpose under this heading 
notwithstanding the purpose for which such amounts were appropriated if 
a program competition is undersubscribed and there are other program 
competitions under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                      Information Technology Fund

    For the development, modernization, and enhancement of, 
modifications to, and infrastructure for Department-wide and program-
specific information technology systems, for the continuing operation 
and maintenance of both Department-wide and program-specific 
information systems, and for program-related maintenance activities, 
$280,000,000, of which $260,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020, and of which $20,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That any amounts transferred to 
this Fund under this Act shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That any amounts transferred to this Fund from 
amounts appropriated by previously enacted appropriations Acts may be 
used for the purposes specified under this Fund, in addition to any 
other information technology purposes for which such amounts were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That not more than 10 percent of the 
funds made available under this heading for development, modernization 
and enhancement may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, for approval, a plan for 
expenditure that--(A) identifies for each modernization project: (i) 
the functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and the 
mission benefits to be realized, (ii) the estimated life-cycle cost, 
and (iii) key milestones to be met; and (B) demonstrates that each 
modernization project is: (i) compliant with the Department's 
enterprise architecture, (ii) being managed in accordance with 
applicable life-cycle management policies and guidance, (iii) subject 
to the Department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements, and (iv) supported by an adequately staffed project 
office.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$128,082,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
independent authority over all personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) shall be rescinded or in the case of 
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. 
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 
percent of the budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to 
refinance their project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2019 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 204.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 205.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 206.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 2019 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided:  Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 207.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and 
excess funds in each program and activity within the jurisdiction of 
the Department and shall submit additional, updated budget information 
to these Committees upon request.
    Sec. 208.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal year 
2020, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's 
congressional budget justifications to be submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall 
use the identical account and sub-account structure provided under this 
Act.
    Sec. 209.  No funds provided under this title may be used for an 
audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that makes 
applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject 
to the conditions listed under this section, for fiscal years 2019 and 
2020, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, debt held or insured 
by the Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more multifamily 
housing project or projects to another multifamily housing project or 
projects.
    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the 
project or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure 
that such project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and 
                the net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to 
                the transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring 
                project: The Secretary may authorize a reduction in the 
                number of dwelling units in the receiving project or 
                projects to allow for a reconfiguration of bedroom 
                sizes to meet current market demands, as determined by 
                the Secretary and provided there is no increase in the 
                project-based assistance budget authority.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
        Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
        nonviable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
        applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
        shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
        transferring project and provide a certification of approval by 
        all appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
        best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
        project or projects meets the condition specified in subsection 
        (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project resulting from 
        additional financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate 
        to any FHA-insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, and/or rehabilitation of the receiving project or 
        projects.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
        subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
        project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.
    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before 
                the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; 
                or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act;
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
                    (F) assistance payments made under section 
                811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
        receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
    (e) Research Report.--The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of 
the transfer authority under this section, including the effect of such 
transfers on the operational efficiency, contract rents, physical and 
financial conditions, and long-term preservation of the affected 
properties.
    Sec. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
            (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
        and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
            (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person to 
receive assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance (in excess of amounts 
received for tuition and any other required fees and charges) that an 
individual receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1002)), shall be considered income to that individual, except for a 
person over the age of 23 with dependent children.
    Sec. 212.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans under the 
heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in title II of this 
Act shall be allocated to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant 
recipients that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2019, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that 
is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the Secretary 
shall maintain any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-
based contracts remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of 
tenants for imminent major threats to health and safety after written 
notice to and informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other 
available remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this section, 
the contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall be 
subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 214.  The commitment authority funded by fees as provided 
under the heading ``Community Development Loan Guarantees Program 
Account'' may be used to guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, 
notes, or other obligations issued by any State on behalf of non-
entitlement communities in the State in accordance with the 
requirements of section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974:  Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such guarantee to the 
units of general local government in non-entitlement areas that 
received the commitment.
    Sec. 215.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or 
fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset 
management requirement imposed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the operating fund rule:  Provided, That 
an agency seeking a discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the 
operating fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
requirements.
    Sec. 216.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in this Act 
and in future Acts for the operation, capital improvement and 
management of public housing as authorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the 
Secretary shall not impose any requirement or guideline relating to 
asset management that restricts or limits in any way the use of capital 
funds for central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  
Provided, That a public housing agency may not use capital funds 
authorized under section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under 
section 9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 217.  No official or employee of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall be designated as an allotment holder unless the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer has determined that such 
allotment holder has implemented an adequate system of funds control 
and has received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a trained 
allotment holder for each HUD appropriation under the accounts 
``Executive Offices'' and ``Administrative Support Offices,'' as well 
as each account receiving appropriations under the general heading 
``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', ``Government National 
Mortgage Association--Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan 
Guarantee Program Account'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' within 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
    Sec. 218.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development shall, for fiscal year 2019, notify the public through the 
Federal Register and other means, as determined appropriate, of the 
issuance of a notice of the availability of assistance or notice of 
funding availability (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund 
administered by the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 2019, the 
Secretary may make the NOFA available only on the Internet at the 
appropriate Government web site or through other electronic media, as 
determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 219.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations. The annual budget 
submission for the program offices and the Office of General Counsel 
shall include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as 
a separate line item request. No funds provided in this title may be 
used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney fees until the 
Department submits for review a spending plan for such costs to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 220.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 percent 
or $5,000,000, whichever is less, of funds appropriated for any office 
under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any account 
under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' to 
any other such office or account:  Provided, That no appropriation for 
any such office or account shall be increased or decreased by more than 
10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior written 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to such 
Committees three business days in advance of any such transfers under 
this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less.
    Sec. 221. (a) Any entity receiving housing assistance payments 
shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary''), and comply with any standards under 
applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or regulations 
relating to the physical condition of any property covered under a 
housing assistance payment contract.
    (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) when a 
multifamily housing project with a section 8 contract or contract for 
similar project-based assistance--
            (1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) 
        score of 60 or less; or
            (2) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 
        days that all Exigent Health and Safety deficiencies identified 
        by the inspector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured projects with 
assistance attached to the units under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), but do not apply to such units 
assisted under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public 
housing units assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
    (c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the REAC inspection, the 
Secretary must provide the owner with a Notice of Default with a 
specified timetable, determined by the Secretary, for correcting all 
deficiencies. The Secretary must also provide a copy of the Notice of 
Default to the tenants, the local government, any mortgagees, and any 
contract administrator. If the owner's appeal results in a UPCS score 
of 60 or above, the Secretary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
    (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all deficiencies 
specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner fails to fully correct 
such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
            (A) require immediate replacement of project management 
        with a management agent approved by the Secretary;
            (B) impose civil money penalties, which shall be used 
        solely for the purpose of supporting safe and sanitary 
        conditions at applicable properties, as designated by the 
        Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the property 
        affected by the penalty;
            (C) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
        abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
        deficiencies have been corrected;
            (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
        the Secretary under established procedures, which will be 
        obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
        renewal of the assistance contract as long as such renewal is 
        offered;
            (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
        project or projects and owner or owners;
            (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
        debarments from Federal programs;
            (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
        property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
        order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
        project deficiencies;
            (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
        stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
        through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
        capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
        effectuate; or
            (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
        available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary.
    (d) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that 
project-based contracts remain in effect, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
major threats to health and safety after written notice to the affected 
tenants. To the extent the Secretary determines, in consultation with 
the tenants and the local government, that the property is not feasible 
for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 or other 
programs, based on consideration of--
            (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
        and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
        including rent adjustments under section 524 of the Multifamily 
        Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 
        (``MAHRAA''); and
            (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in a 
        cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may contract for project-
        based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of 
        other existing housing properties, or provide other rental 
        assistance.
    (e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on all properties covered 
by this section that are assessed through the Real Estate Assessment 
Center and have UPCS physical inspection scores of less than 60 or have 
received an unsatisfactory management and occupancy review within the 
past 36 months. The report shall include--
            (1) the enforcement actions being taken to address such 
        conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
        termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
        such conditions multiple times;
            (2) actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
        properties; and
            (3) any administrative or legislative recommendations to 
        further improve the living conditions at properties covered 
        under a housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and House Committees on 
Appropriations no later than 30 days after the enactment of this Act, 
and on the first business day of each Federal fiscal year quarter 
thereafter while this section remains in effect.
    Sec. 222.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect 
to the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used 
by any public housing agency for any amount of salary, including 
bonuses, for the chief executive officer of which, or any other 
official or employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic 
pay payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any 
time during any public housing agency fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award 
unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project, 
State, locality, housing authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or 
other entity selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
Department or its offices.
    Sec. 224.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Administration, or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of 
any mortgage or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other 
political subdivision of a State.
    Sec. 226.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 227.  Amounts made available under this Act which are either 
appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or 
transferred to the Office of Policy Development and Research in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development and functions thereof, for 
research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, and which are unexpended 
at the time of completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement, may be deobligated and shall immediately become available 
and may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal 
year for the research, evaluation, or statistical purposes for which 
the amounts are made available to that Office subject to reprogramming 
requirements in section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds provided in this Act or any other act 
may be used for awards, including performance, special act, or spot, 
for any employee of the Department of Housing and Urban Development who 
has been subject to administrative discipline in fiscal years 2018 or 
2019, including suspension from work.
    Sec. 229.  Funds made available in this title under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' may be used by the Secretary to 
participate in Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 
526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of 
Public Law 113-235, section 525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, 
and such authorities as are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots 
in an appropriations Act for fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such 
participation shall be limited to no more than 10 continuums of care 
and housing activities to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
    Sec. 230.  With respect to grant amounts awarded under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 
and 2019 for the continuum of care (CoC) program as authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
costs paid by program income of grant recipients may count toward 
meeting the recipient's matching requirements, provided the costs are 
eligible CoC costs that supplement the recipient's CoC program.
    Sec. 231. (a) From amounts made available under this title under 
the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'', the Secretary may award 1-
year transition grants to recipients of funds for activities under 
subtitle C of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11381 et seq.) to transition from one Continuum of Care program 
component to another.
    (b) No more than 50 percent of each transition grant may be used 
for costs of eligible activities of the program component originally 
funded.
    (c) Transition grants made under this section are eligible for 
renewal in subsequent fiscal years for the eligible activities of the 
new program component.
    (d) In order to be eligible to receive a transition grant, the 
funding recipient must have the consent of the Continuum of Care and 
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 232.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to direct a grantee 
to undertake specific changes to existing zoning laws as part of 
carrying out the final rule entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled 
``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 
57949 (September 26, 2014)).
    Sec. 233.  Section 218(g) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with 
respect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw funds from its HOME 
Investment Trust Fund that otherwise expired or would expire in 2016, 
2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2021 under that section.
    Sec. 234.  The Promise Zone designations and Promise Zone 
Designation Agreements entered into pursuant to such designations, made 
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in prior fiscal 
years, shall remain in effect in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of such agreements.
    Sec. 235.  The Secretary shall initiate a comprehensive review of 
existing public housing and tenant-based rental assistance regulations 
and related notices and other guidance documents to identify 
opportunities to streamline the administration of such programs while 
also ensuring compliance with Federal financial and internal control 
requirements. The Secretary shall establish a regulatory advisory 
committee, composed of program and research experts from the 
Department, a fair representation of public housing agencies, and 
independent subject matter experts in housing policy, property 
management, and Federal grant management, which shall advise the 
Secretary with respect to specific policy proposals to reduce 
administrative burden. The Secretary, in consultation with the advisory 
committee, shall submit a report on the results of such regulatory 
review to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations no later 
than one year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 236.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to establish and apply a ranking factor in the selection and award of 
any funds made available and requiring competitive selection under this 
Act, including preference or bonus points or other incentives for 
participation in or coordination with EnVision Centers.
    Sec. 237. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
continue to engage in efforts authorized by the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4; 127 Stat. 54) to ensure 
that survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault are not 
unlawfully evicted or denied housing by certain landlords based on 
their experience as survivors.
    (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit to 
Congress a report on the efforts described in subsection (a).
    Sec. 238.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to provide housing assistance benefits for an individual who is 
convicted of--
            (1) aggravated sexual abuse under section 2241 of title 18, 
        United States Code;
            (2) murder under section 1111 of title 18, United States 
        Code; or
            (3) any other Federal or State offense involving--
                    (A) severe forms of trafficking in persons or sex 
                trafficking, as those terms are defined in paragraphs 
                (9) and (10), respectively, of section 103 of the 
                Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
                7102); or
                    (B) child pornography, as defined in section 2256 
                of title 18, United States Code.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2019''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $8,400,000:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received for publications and 
training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902, $27,490,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,274,000:  Provided, 
That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General 
may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, 
analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private 
persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern the 
obtaining of such services within the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General may select, 
appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
Corporation:  Provided further, That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2020, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2020 in similar format and substance to those submitted 
by executive agencies of the Federal Government: Provided further, That 
not later than 240 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Inspector General shall update the report entitled ``Effects of 
Amtrak's Poor On-Time Performance'', numbered CR-2008-047, and dated 
March 28, 2008, and make the updated report publicly available.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$110,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses. The amounts made available to 
the National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include amounts 
necessary to make lease payments on an obligation incurred in fiscal 
year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $145,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family rental housing program:  
Provided, That an additional $2,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2023, shall be for the promotion and development of 
shared equity housing models.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2019, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $35,850,000.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code) of the United States Interagency 
Council on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
$3,600,000:  Provided, That the first proviso in Public Law 115-141 
under the heading ``United States Interagency Council on Homelessness--
Operating Expenses'' is amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting 
``2021''.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through a procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
        a different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
        division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
        administration, or department different from the budget 
        justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
        the table accompanying the report accompanying this Act, 
        whichever is more detailed, unless prior approval is received 
        from the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
        Provided, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall 
        submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and of the House of Representatives to establish the 
        baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
        authorities for the current fiscal year:  Provided further, 
        That the report shall include--
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation and its respective prior year enacted 
                level by object class and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the 
                respective appropriation; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2019 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2020, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 405 
of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any Federal, 
State, or local projects that seek to use the power of eminent domain, 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, public use shall not be construed to 
include economic development that primarily benefits private entities:  
Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, railroad, 
airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as utility projects which 
benefit or serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the general 
public or which have other common-carrier or public-utility functions 
that serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of an 
immediate threat to public health and safety or brownfields as defined 
in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization 
Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a public use for purposes 
of eminent domain.
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 409.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his or her period of active military or naval service, and 
has within 90 days after his or her release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his or her former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his or her former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 411.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the 
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval 
would contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-
Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
of a single agency or department of the United States Government, who 
are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference unless the relevant Secretary reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
such attendance is important to the national interest:  Provided, That 
for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference occurring outside of the United States attended 
by representatives of the United States Government and of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation 
Board to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or practice 
complaints filed with the Board in an amount in excess of the amount 
authorized for district court civil suit filing fees under section 1914 
of title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 416.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, or any other Federal agency to lease or purchase new 
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet 
inventory, except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal 
Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 418. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
to any records, documents, or other materials available to the 
department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to such 
records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to the Inspector 
General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of access.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and 
other materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement.
    Sec. 419.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for 
contractors whose performance has been judged to be below satisfactory, 
behind schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet the basic 
requirements of a contract, unless the Agency determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program unless such awards or incentive fees are consistent with 
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
    Sec. 420. (a) Section 420 (a) None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act may be used to acquire 
telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company, 
ZTE Corporation or a high-impact or moderate-impact information system, 
as defined for security categorization in the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information Processing 
Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security Categorization of 
Federal Information and Information Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
        acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
        information systems within the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted an 
        assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
        associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
        risk associated with such system being produced, manufactured, 
        or assembled by one or more entities identified by the United 
        States Government as posing a cyber threat, including but not 
        limited to, those that may be owned, directed, or subsidized by 
        the People's Republic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
        the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or the Russian 
        Federation.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless 
the head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks;
            (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system is 
        in the vital national security interest of the United States; 
        and
            (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        in a manner that identifies the system intended for acquisition 
        and a detailed description of the mitigation strategies 
        identified in (1), provided that such report may include a 
        classified annex as necessary.
    This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and 
Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
115th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 6147

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT