[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5384 Reported in Senate (RS)]


                                                       Calendar No. 477
109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H.R. 5384

                          [Report No. 109-266]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 24, 2006

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 22, 2006

               Reported by Mr. Bennett, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

Rule___________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
<DELETED>That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other 
purposes, namely:</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>TITLE I</DELETED>

                <DELETED>AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Production, Processing, and Marketing</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Office of the Secretary</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, $5,499,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this 
amount shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by the 
Secretary.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Executive Operations</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>chief economist</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including 
economic analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, energy and 
new uses, and the functions of the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as 
authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), 
$11,226,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>national appeals division</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, 
$14,795,000.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>office of budget and program analysis</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $8,479,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>homeland security staff</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Homeland Security Staff, 
$954,000.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Office of the Chief Information Officer</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer, $16,936,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Common Computing Environment</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to acquire a Common Computing 
Environment for the Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Farm 
and Foreign Agricultural Service, and Rural Development mission areas 
for information technology, systems, and services, $68,971,000 (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (reduced by $25,576,000), of which $4,494,127 (reduced 
by $1,666,523) is for rural development-related activities, $14,494,273 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,374,803) is for Natural Resource 
Conservation Service-related activities, and $49,982,600 (reduced by 
$18,534,674) is for Farm Service Agency-related activities, to remain 
available until expended, for the capital asset acquisition of shared 
information technology systems, including services as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 6915-16 and 40 U.S.C. 1421-28: Provided, That obligation of 
these funds shall be consistent with the Department of Agriculture 
Service Center Modernization Plan of the county-based agencies, and 
shall be with the concurrence of the Department's Chief Information 
Officer: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
section, $410,000 shall be available to process data to acquire 
fourband digital color infrared imagery of the entire State of New 
Mexico.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Office of the Chief Financial Officer</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
Financial Officer, $5,991,000: Provided, That no funds made available 
by this appropriation may be obligated for FAIR Act or Circular A-76 
activities until the Secretary has submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress and the Committee on 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives a report on the 
Department's contracting out policies, including agency budgets for 
contracting out.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, $836,000.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Office of Civil Rights</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
$22,650,000.</DELETED>

<DELETED>Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Administration, $736,000.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental 
                           Payments</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to 
Public Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 
delegation of authority from the Administrator of General Services to 
the Department of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and 
activities of the Department which are included in this Act, and for 
alterations and other actions needed for the Department and its 
agencies to consolidate unneeded space into configurations suitable for 
release to the Administrator of General Services, and for the 
operation, maintenance, improvement, and repair of Agriculture 
buildings and facilities, and for related costs, $209,814,000 (reduced 
by $3,145,000), to remain available until expended, of which 
$155,851,000 shall be available for payments to the General Services 
Administration for rent and the Department of Homeland Security for 
building security: Provided, That amounts which are made available for 
space rental and related costs for the Department of Agriculture in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations to cover the 
costs of additional, new, or replacement space 15 days after notice 
thereof is transmitted to the Appropriations Committees of both Houses 
of Congress.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Hazardous Materials Management</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, 
to comply with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $12,020,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and 
funds available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials 
Management may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its 
use in meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal 
and non-Federal lands.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Departmental Administration</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Departmental Administration, $24,114,000, to provide 
for necessary expenses for management support services to offices of 
the Department and for general administration, security, repairs and 
alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not 
otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and efficient 
work of the Department: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
reimbursed from applicable appropriations in this Act for travel 
expenses incident to the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 
551-558.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
                          Relations</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the 
programs funded by this Act, including programs involving 
intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the executive branch, 
$3,940,000: Provided, That these funds may be transferred to agencies 
of the Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain 
personnel at the agency level: Provided further, That no funds made 
available by this appropriation may be obligated after 30 days from the 
date of enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary has notified the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the 
allocation of these funds by USDA agency: Provided further, That no 
other funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be 
available to the Department for support of activities of congressional 
relations.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Office of Communications</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out services relating to 
the coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the 
dissemination of agricultural information, and the coordination of 
information, work, and programs authorized by Congress in the 
Department, $9,695,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000,000 may be 
used for farmers' bulletins.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Office of the Inspector General</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
General, including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $82,493,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, and including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential 
operational expenses, including the payment of informants, to be 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to 
Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Office of the General Counsel</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General 
Counsel, $40,455,000.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and 
                          Economics</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the 
National Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research 
Service, and the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service, $651,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Economic Research Service</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, $80,963,000.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>National Agricultural Statistics Service</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural 
Statistics Service in conducting statistical reporting and service 
work, $148,719,000 (reduced by $500,000), of which up to $36,582,000 
shall be available until expended for the Census of 
Agriculture.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Agricultural Research Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research 
Service to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent 
of the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $1,057,603,000, of which $2,350,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $375,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,200,000, and except for 
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$750,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $375,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center: Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry 
out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That 
the foregoing limitations shall not apply to the purchase of land at 
Florence, South Carolina: Provided further, That funds may be received 
from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or 
individual for the purpose of establishing or operating any research 
facility or research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as 
authorized by law: Provided further, That the Secretary, through the 
Agricultural Research Service, or successor, is authorized to lease 
approximately 40 acres of land at the Central Plains Experiment 
Station, Nunn, Colorado, to the Board of Governors of the Colorado 
State University System, for its Shortgrass Steppe Biological Field 
Station, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems in the 
public interest: Provided further, That the Secretary understands that 
it is the intent of the University to construct research and 
educational buildings on the subject acreage and to conduct 
agricultural research and educational activities in these buildings: 
Provided further, That as consideration for a lease, the Secretary may 
accept the benefits of mutual cooperative research to be conducted by 
the Colorado State University and the Government at the Shortgrass 
Steppe Biological Field Station: Provided further, That the term of any 
lease shall be for no more than 20 years, but a lease may be renewed at 
the option of the Secretary on such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary deems in the public interest: Provided further, That the 
Agricultural Research Service may convey all rights and title of the 
United States, to a parcel of land comprising 19 acres, more or less, 
located in Section 2, Township 18 North, Range 14 East in Oktibbeha 
County, Mississippi, originally conveyed by the Board of Trustees of 
the Institution of Higher Learning of the State of Mississippi, and 
described in instruments recorded in Deed Book 306 at pages 553-554, 
Deed Book 319 at page 219, and Deed Book 33 at page 115, of the public 
land records of Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, including facilities, 
and fixed equipment, to the Mississippi State University, Starkville, 
Mississippi, in their ``as is'' condition, when vacated by the 
Agricultural Research Service: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available to carry out 
research related to the production, processing, or marketing of tobacco 
or tobacco products.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>buildings and facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, 
improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or 
facilities as necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs 
of the Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, 
$140,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension 
                           Service</DELETED>

          <DELETED>research and education activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for 
cooperative forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other 
expenses, $651,606,000 (reduced by $100,000), as follows: to carry out 
the provisions of the Hatch Act of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 361a-i), 
$183,275,000; for grants for cooperative forestry research (16 U.S.C. 
582a through a-7), $22,668,000; for payments to the 1890 land-grant 
colleges, including Tuskegee University and West Virginia State 
University (7 U.S.C. 3222), $38,331,000, of which $1,507,496 shall be 
made available only for the purpose of ensuring that each institution 
shall receive no less than $1,000,000; for special grants for 
agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)), $103,471,000; for special 
grants for agricultural research on improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)), $14,952,000; for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)), $190,000,000 (reduced by $800,000) (reduced by $200,000); for 
the support of animal health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195), 
$5,006,000; for supplemental and alternative crops and products (7 
U.S.C. 3319d), $1,175,000; for grants for research pursuant to the 
Critical Agricultural Materials Act (7 U.S.C. 178 et seq.), $1,091,000, 
to remain available until expended; for the 1994 research grants 
program for 1994 institutions pursuant to section 536 of Public Law 
103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $1,250,000, to remain available until 
expended; for rangeland research grants (7 U.S.C. 3333), $1,000,000; 
for higher education graduate fellowship grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), 
$4,455,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); for 
higher education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)), $5,445,000; 
for a higher education multicultural scholars program (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(5)), $988,000 to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b); for an education grants program for Hispanic-serving 
Institutions (7 U.S.C. 3241), $5,940,000 (increased by $700,000); for a 
secondary agriculture education program and 2-year post-secondary 
education (7 U.S.C. 3152(j)), $990,000; for aquaculture grants (7 
U.S.C. 3322), $3,956,000; for sustainable agriculture research and 
education (7 U.S.C. 5811), $12,196,000; for a program of capacity 
building grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive 
funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), 
including Tuskegee University and West Virginia State University, 
$12,375,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); for 
payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 534(a)(1) of 
Public Law 103-382, $3,000,000; for resident instruction grants for 
insular areas under section 1491 of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3363), $500,000 
(increased by $200,000); and for necessary expenses of Research and 
Education Activities, $39,542,000, of which $2,723,000 for the 
Research, Education, and Economics Information System and $2,151,000 
for the Electronic Grants Information System, are to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available to carry out research related to the 
production, processing, or marketing of tobacco or tobacco products: 
Provided further, That this paragraph shall not apply to research on 
the medical, biotechnological, food, and industrial uses of 
tobacco.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>native american institutions endowment fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund 
authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to 
remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>extension activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto 
Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $457,042,000, as follows: payments for cooperative 
extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, to be distributed under 
sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under section 208(c) of Public 
Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' compensation costs for 
extension agents, $281,429,000; payments for extension work at the 1994 
Institutions under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), 
$3,273,000; payments for the nutrition and family education program for 
low-income areas under section 3(d) of the Act, $62,634,000; payments 
for the pest management program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$10,152,000; payments for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of 
the Act, $4,517,000; payments for New Technologies for Ag Extension 
under Section 3(d) of the Act, $1,985,000; payments to upgrade 
research, extension, and teaching facilities at the 1890 land-grant 
colleges, including Tuskegee University and West Virginia State 
University, as authorized by section 1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 
U.S.C. 3222b), $16,777,000, to remain available until expended; 
payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 3(d) of the Smith-
Lever Act, $8,396,000; for youth farm safety education and 
certification extension grants, to be awarded competitively under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $494,000; payments for carrying out the 
provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
1671 et seq.), $4,052,000; payments for federally-recognized Tribes 
Extension Program under section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act, 
$3,000,000; payments for sustainable agriculture programs under section 
3(d) of the Act, $4,067,000; payments for rural health and safety 
education as authorized by section 502(i) of Public Law 92-419 (7 
U.S.C. 2662(i)), $1,945,000; payments for cooperative extension work by 
the colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 
321-326 and 328) and Tuskegee University and West Virginia State 
University, $34,073,000, of which $1,724,884 shall be made available 
only for the purpose of ensuring that each institution shall receive no 
less than $1,000,000; for grants to youth organizations pursuant to 
section 7630 of title 7, United States Code, $2,000,000; and for 
necessary expenses of Extension Activities, $18,248,000.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>integrated activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the integrated research, education, and extension 
grants programs, including necessary administrative expenses, 
$55,234,000 (increased by $3,145,000), as follows: for competitive 
grants programs authorized under section 406 of the Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7626), 
$45,792,000, including $11,278,000 for the water quality program, 
$12,997,000 for the food safety program, $3,890,000 for the regional 
pest management centers program, $4,219,000 for the Food Quality 
Protection Act risk mitigation program for major food crop systems, 
$1,275,000 for the crops affected by Food Quality Protection Act 
implementation, $3,075,000 for the methyl bromide transition program, 
and $1,855,000 (increased by $3,145,000) for the organic transition 
program; for a competitive international science and education grants 
program authorized under section 1459A of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3292b), 
to remain available until expended, $990,000; for grants programs 
authorized under section 2(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 89-106, as amended, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008 for the 
critical issues program; and $1,378,000, for the regional rural 
development centers program; $2,277,000 for asian soybean rust; and 
$11,000,000 for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative authorized 
under section 1484 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Act of 1977, to remain available until September 30, 
2008.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$6,930,000 (increased by $100,000), to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory 
                           Programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer 
programs under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service; the Agricultural Marketing Service; 
and the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; 
$741,000.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; and to 
protect the environment, as authorized by law, $898,116,000 (increased 
by $23,000,000) (increased by $500,000), of which $4,127,000 shall be 
available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant diseases, 
animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to the extent 
necessary to meet emergency conditions; of which $40,269,000 shall be 
used for the Cotton Pests program for cost share purposes or for debt 
retirement for active eradication zones; of which $33,107,000 shall be 
available for a National Animal Identification program; of which 
$47,205,000 shall be used to conduct a surveillance and preparedness 
program for highly pathogenic avian influenza: Provided, That no funds 
shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication 
program for the current fiscal year that does not require minimum 
matching by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading for the National 
Animal Identification program may be obligated until the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives receives from the 
Secretary a complete and detailed plan for the National Animal 
Identification System, including, but not limited to, proposed 
legislative changes, cost estimates, and means of program evaluation, 
and such plan is published as an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
in the Federal Register for comment by interested parties: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the operation 
and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of 
which two shall be for replacement only: Provided further, That, in 
addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural 
production industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from 
other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations 
of the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal 
Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 431 and 442 
of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any 
unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration 
of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In fiscal year 2007, the agency is authorized to collect 
fees to cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, 
or services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>buildings and facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $5,946,000, to 
remain available until expended.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Agricultural Marketing Service</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>marketing services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out services related to 
consumer protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, 
transportation, and regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for 
administration and coordination of payments to States, $77,269,000, 
including funds for the wholesale market development program for the 
design and development of wholesale and farmer market facilities for 
the major metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization 
activities, as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 
9701).</DELETED>

        <DELETED>limitation on administrative expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not to exceed $62,211,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
obligated during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: 
Provided, That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable 
events occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent 
with notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 
                             32)</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 
1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses 
as authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, including 
not less than $9,900,000 for replacement of a system to support 
commodity purchases, except for: (1) transfers to the Department of 
Commerce as authorized by the Fish and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; 
(2) transfers otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than 
$16,425,000 for formulation and administration of marketing agreements 
and orders pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 
and the Agricultural Act of 1961.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>payments to states and possessions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and 
departments of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities 
under section 204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1623(b)), $1,334,000.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards 
                        Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
United States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the 
Packers and Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect 
purchasers of farm products, and the standardization activities related 
to grain under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, $39,737,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 
U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Limitation on Inspection and Weighing Services 
                           Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not to exceed $42,463,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
obligated during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing 
services: Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the 
Congress for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, 
$656,000.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Food Safety and Inspection Service</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by 
the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, 
and the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $50,000 
for representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of 
the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $853,249,000, of which 
no less than $766,290,000 shall be available for Federal food safety 
and inspection; and in addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this 
account from fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
authorized by section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Provided, That of the total amount 
made available under this heading, no less than $20,653,000 shall be 
obligated for regulatory and scientific training: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $565,000 is for construction of a laboratory sample 
receiving facility at the Russell Research Center in Athens, Georgia: 
Provided further,  That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>FARM ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign 
                    Agricultural Services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to 
administer the laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, 
the Foreign Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the 
Commodity Credit Corporation, $691,000.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Farm Service Agency</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration 
and implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$1,053,760,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to 
and merged with this account: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries or expenses 
of any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to close 
any local or county office of the Farm Service Agency unless the 
Secretary of Agriculture, not later than 30 days before the date on 
which the Secretary proposed the closure, holds a public meeting about 
the proposed closure in the county in which the local or county office 
is located, and, after the public meeting but not later than 120 days 
before the date on which the Secretary approves the closure, notifies 
the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
members of Congress from the State in which the local or county office 
is located of the proposed closure.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>state mediation grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural 
Credit Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), 
$4,208,000.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>grassroots source water protection program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or 
groundwater protection activities under section 1240O of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $3,713,000, to remain 
available until expended.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>dairy indemnity program</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity 
payments to dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a 
dairy indemnity program, $100,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such program is carried out by the Secretary in the same 
manner as the dairy indemnity program described in the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 Stat. 1549A-
12).</DELETED>

 <DELETED>agricultural credit insurance fund program account</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 
U.S.C. 488), and boll weevil loans (7 U.S.C. 1989), to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $1,422,750,000, of which $1,200,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $222,750,000 shall be for direct 
loans; operating loans, $2,065,754,000, of which $1,150,000,000 shall 
be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $272,254,000 shall be for 
subsidized guaranteed loans and $643,500,000 shall be for direct loans; 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans, $3,960,000; and for boll weevil 
eradication program loans, $59,400,000: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the purpose of 
boll weevil eradication program loans.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the 
cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $16,293,000, of 
which $6,960,000 shall be for guaranteed loans, and $9,333,000 shall be 
for direct loans; operating loans, $131,046,000, of which $28,405,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $27,416,000 shall be for 
subsidized guaranteed loans, and $75,225,000 shall be for direct loans; 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans, $838,000; and for boll weevil 
eradication program loans, $1,129,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $315,258,000, of 
which $307,338,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and 
Expenses''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit 
Insurance Program Account for farm ownership and operating direct loans 
and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs: Provided, 
That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel to 
collect from the lender an annual fee on unsubsidized guaranteed 
operating loans, a guarantee fee of more than one percent of the 
principal obligation of guaranteed unsubsidized operating or ownership 
loans, or a guarantee fee on subsidized guaranteed operating loans 
administered by the Farm Service Agency.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Risk Management Agency</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized 
by section 226A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
1994 (7 U.S.C. 6933), $77,197,000: Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses, 
as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).</DELETED>

                    <DELETED>CORPORATIONS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The following corporations and agencies are hereby 
authorized to make expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to each such corporation or agency and in 
accord with law, and to make contracts and commitments without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to 
remain available until expended.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Commodity Credit Corporation Fund</DELETED>

        <DELETED>reimbursement for net realized losses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary 
to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11): Provided, That of the funds 
available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>hazardous waste management</DELETED>

              <DELETED>(limitation on expenses)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall not expend more than $5,000,000 for site 
investigation and cleanup expenses, and operations and maintenance 
expenses to comply with the requirement of section 107(g) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
(42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6961).</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE II</DELETED>

                <DELETED>CONSERVATION PROGRAMS</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and 
                         Environment</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, $810,000 (reduced by 
$810,000).</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Natural Resources Conservation Service</DELETED>

               <DELETED>conservation operations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of 
the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$791,498,000, to remain available until March 31, 2008, of which not 
less than $10,588,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting, and not 
less than $10,678,000 is for operation and establishment of the plant 
materials centers, and of which not less than $27,225,000 shall be for 
the grazing lands conservation initiative: Provided, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 
for construction and improvement of buildings and public improvements 
at plant materials centers, except that the cost of alterations and 
improvements to other buildings and other public improvements shall not 
exceed $250,000: Provided further, That when buildings or other 
structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the right to use such 
land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for technical assistance and 
related expenses to carry out programs authorized by section 202(c) of 
title II of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 
U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That qualified local engineers may 
be temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the technical 
planning work of the Service.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>watershed surveys and planning</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, 
and surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1009), 
$6,022,000.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>watershed and flood prevention operations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, 
including but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods 
of cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing 
works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-
1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), 
and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $40,000,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which up to $10,000,000 may be available for the 
watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 
U.S.C. 1006a): Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 of this 
appropriation shall be available for technical assistance: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is 
available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93-205), including cooperative efforts as contemplated 
by that Act to relocate endangered or threatened species to other 
suitable habitats as may be necessary to expedite project 
construction.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>watershed rehabilitation program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out rehabilitation of 
structural measures, in accordance with section 14 of the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1012), and in accordance 
with the provisions of laws relating to the activities of the 
Department, $31,245,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>resource conservation and development</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out 
projects for resource conservation and development and for sound land 
use pursuant to the provisions of sections 31 and 32 of the Bankhead-
Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607); the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f); and subtitle H of title XV of the 
Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-3461), $50,787,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
enter into a cooperative or contribution agreement, within 45 days of 
enactment of this Act, with a national association regarding a Resource 
Conservation and Development program and such agreement shall contain 
the same matching, contribution requirements, and funding level, set 
forth in a similar cooperative or contribution agreement with a 
national association in fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $3,411,000 shall be available for national headquarters 
activities.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE III</DELETED>

             <DELETED>RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service, 
$692,000.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>rural community advancement program</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, 
as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932, except 
for sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, $699,893,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000), to remain available until 
expended, of which $49,477,000 (increased by $5,000,000) shall be for 
rural community programs described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; 
of which $561,252,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs 
described in sections 381E(d)(2), 306C(a)(2), and 306D of such Act, of 
which not to exceed $500,000 shall be available for the rural utilities 
program described in section 306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not 
to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the rural utilities program 
described in section 306E of such Act; and of which $89,164,000 shall 
be for the rural business and cooperative development programs 
described in sections 381E(d)(3) and 310B(f) of such Act: Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated in this account, $24,000,000 
shall be for loans and grants to benefit Federally Recognized Native 
American Tribes, including grants for drinking water and waste disposal 
systems pursuant to section 306C of such Act, of which $4,000,000 shall 
be available for community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as 
authorized by section 306(a)(19) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, and of which $250,000 shall be available for a grant 
to a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance 
for rural transportation in order to promote economic development: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for the rural 
business and cooperative development programs, not to exceed $500,000 
shall be made available for a grant to a qualified national 
organization to provide technical assistance for rural transportation 
in order to promote economic development; $3,000,000 shall be for 
grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) for any 
purpose under this heading: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated for rural utilities programs, not to exceed $25,000,000 
shall be for water and waste disposal systems to benefit the Colonias 
along the United States/Mexico border, including grants pursuant to 
section 306C of such Act; $16,215,000 shall be for technical assistance 
grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) 
of such Act, of which $5,600,000 shall be for Rural Community 
Assistance Programs; and not to exceed $14,000,000 shall be for 
contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit rider 
program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$22,800,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for authorized 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities designated 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership 
Zones; of which $1,100,000 shall be for the rural community programs 
described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act, of which $13,400,000 shall 
be for the rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of 
such Act, and of which $8,300,000 shall be for the rural business and 
cooperative development programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of 
such Act: Provided further, That any prior year balances for high cost 
energy grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901(19)) shall be transferred to and merged with the 
``Rural Utilities Service, High Energy Costs Grants 
Account''.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Rural Development Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration 
and implementation of programs in the Rural Development mission area, 
including activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$182,860,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds appropriated under this section may be used for advertising 
and promotional activities that support the Rural Development mission 
area: Provided further, That not more than $10,000 may be expended to 
provide modest nonmonetary awards to non-USDA employees: Provided 
further, That any balances available from prior years for the Rural 
Utilities Service, Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service salaries and expenses accounts shall be transferred 
to and merged with this appropriation.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Rural Housing Service</DELETED>

    <DELETED>rural housing insurance fund program account</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 
1949, to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, 
as follows: $4,801,736,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $1,237,498,000 shall be for 
direct loans, and of which $3,564,238,000 shall be for unsubsidized 
guaranteed loans; $36,382,000 for section 504 housing repair loans; 
$100,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; $100,000,000 for section 
538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; $5,045,000 for section 524 
site loans; $11,482,000 for credit sales of acquired property, of which 
up to $1,482,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and $4,980,000 
for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the 
cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $131,893,000, of 
which $124,121,000 shall be for direct loans, and of which $7,772,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for unsubsidized 
guaranteed loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $10,751,000; 
repair, rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental 
housing, $45,670,000; section 538 multi-family housing guaranteed 
loans, $7,740,000; credit sales of acquired property, $720,000; and 
section 523 self-help housing land development loans, $123,000: 
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, 
$1,500,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for authorized 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities designated 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership 
Zones: Provided further, That any obligated balances for a 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of the 
section 515 multi-family rental housing properties as authorized in 
Public Law 109-97 shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Rural 
Housing Service, Multifamily Housing Revitalization Program 
Account''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $430,080,000, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>rental assistance program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed 
pursuant to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered 
into in lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$335,400,000, to remain available through September 30, 2008; and, in 
addition, such sums as may be necessary, as authorized by section 
521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 
to carry out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of 
the Act: Provided, That of this amount, up to $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed 
$50,000 per project for advances to nonprofit organizations or public 
agencies to cover direct costs (other than purchase price) incurred in 
purchasing projects pursuant to section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: 
Provided further, That agreements entered into or renewed during the 
current fiscal year shall be funded for a one-year period: Provided 
further, That any unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-
year agreements may be transferred and used for the purposes of any 
debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any existing 
projects; preservation; and rental assistance activities authorized 
under title V of the Act: Provided further, That rental assistance that 
is recovered from projects that are subject to prepayment shall be 
deobligated and reallocated for vouchers and debt forgiveness or 
payments consistent with the requirements of this Act for purposes 
authorized under section 542 and section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing 
Act of 1949, as amended: Provided further, That up to $4,190,000 may be 
used for the purpose of reimbursing funds used for rental assistance 
agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to the authority under 
section 521(a)(2) of the Act for emergency needs related to Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Multifamily Housing Revitalization Program Account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under 
section 542 of the Housing Act of 1949, (without regard to section 
542(b)), for the cost to conduct a housing demonstration program to 
provide revolving loans for the preservation of low-income multi-family 
housing projects, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of the section 515 
multi-family rental housing properties, $28,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $16,000,000 shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005: Provided further, 
That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference between 
comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant paid 
rent for such unit: Provided further, That funds made available for 
such vouchers, shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (including the ability to pay administrative costs 
related to delivery of the voucher funds): Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be 
available for loans to private non-profit organizations, or such non-
profit organizations' affiliate loan funds and State and local housing 
finance agencies, to carry out a housing demonstration program to 
provide revolving loans for the preservation of low-income multi-family 
housing projects: Provided further, That loans under such demonstration 
program shall have an interest rate of not more than 1 percent direct 
loan to the recipient: Provided further, That the Secretary may defer 
the interest and principal payment to the Rural Housing Service for up 
to 3 years and the term of such loans shall not exceed 30 years: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$9,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the section 515 multi-family rental 
housing properties to restructure existing section 515 loans, as the 
Secretary deems appropriate, expressly for the purposes of ensuring the 
project has sufficient resources to preserve the project for the 
purpose of providing safe and affordable housing for low-income 
residents including reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan 
payments, subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other 
financial assistance including advances and incentives required by the 
Secretary: Provide further, That if Congress enacts legislation to 
permanently authorize a section 515 multi-family rental housing loan 
restructuring program similar to the demonstration program described 
herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct loan program, $990,000, which shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses'', which shall be made available for the Secretary to 
contract with third parties to acquire the necessary automation and 
technical services needed to restructure section 515 
mortgages.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>mutual and self-help housing grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) 
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $37,620,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for 
authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area 
Partnership Zones.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>rural housing assistance grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants and contracts for very low-income housing 
repair, supervisory and technical assistance, compensation for 
construction defects, and rural housing preservation made by the Rural 
Housing Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 1479(c), 1490e, and 
1490m, $40,590,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
of the total amount appropriated, $1,188,000 shall be available through 
June 30, 2007, for authorized empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities and communities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones: Provided further, That any 
balances to carry out a housing demonstration program to provide 
revolving loans for the preservation of low-income multi-family housing 
projects as authorized in Public Law 108-447 and Public Law 109-97 
shall be transferred to and merged with ``Rural Housing Service, 
Multifamily Housing Revitalization Program Account''.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>farm labor program account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1486, $47,525,000, to remain available 
until expended, for direct farm labor housing loans and domestic farm 
labor housing grants and contracts.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Rural Business--Cooperative Service</DELETED>

     <DELETED>rural development loan fund program account</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by 
the Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)), 
$33,925,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost of direct loans, $14,951,000, as authorized 
by the Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)), of which 
$1,724,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes and of which $3,449,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2007, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460): Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $880,000 shall 
be available through June 30, 2007, for the cost of direct loans for 
authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area 
Partnership Zones.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct loan programs, $4,780,000 shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and 
Expenses''.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>rural economic development loans program account</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized 
under section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$34,652,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, $7,568,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of 
credit payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $78,514,000 shall not be obligated and 
$78,514,000 are rescinded.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>rural cooperative development grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under 
section 310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 
U.S.C. 1932), $9,913,000, of which $500,000 shall be for a cooperative 
research agreement with a qualified academic institution to conduct 
research on the national economic impact of all types of cooperatives; 
and of which $3,000,000 shall be for cooperative agreements for the 
appropriate technology transfer for rural areas program: Provided, That 
not to exceed $1,485,000 shall be for cooperatives or associations of 
cooperatives whose primary focus is to provide assistance to small, 
minority producers and whose governing board and/or membership is 
comprised of at least 75 percent minority.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>rural empowerment zones and enterprise communities 
                            grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants in connection with second and third rounds of 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, $11,088,000, to remain 
available until expended, for designated rural empowerment zones and 
rural enterprise communities, as authorized by the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997 and the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277): Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be made available to third round 
empowerment zones, as authorized by the Community Renewal Tax Relief 
Act (Public Law 106-554).</DELETED>

              <DELETED>renewable energy program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of a program of direct loans, loan 
guarantees, and grants, under the same terms and conditions as 
authorized by section 9006 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8106), $20,000,000 for direct and guaranteed 
renewable energy loans and grants: Provided, That the cost of direct 
loans and loan guarantees, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Rural Utilities Service</DELETED>

  <DELETED>rural electrification and telecommunications loans program 
                           account</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of 
the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as 
follows: 5 percent rural electrification loans, $99,018,000; municipal 
rate rural electric loans, $99,000,000; loans made pursuant to section 
306 of that Act, rural electric loans, $3,000,000,000; Treasury rate 
direct electric loans, $990,000,000; guaranteed underwriting loans 
pursuant to section 313A, $500,000,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, $143,513,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $246,666,000; and for loans made pursuant to 
section 306 of that Act, rural telecommunications loans, 
$299,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying 
loans, of direct and guaranteed loans authorized by sections 305 and 
306 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935 and 936), as 
follows: cost of rural electric loans, $3,614,000, and the cost of 
telecommunications loans, $605,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower 
interest rates may exceed 7 percent per year.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $39,101,000 which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and Broadband 
                           Program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication 
loans, $503,535,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services 
in rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $24,750,000, 
to remain available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
901 et seq., $10,826,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: 
Provided, That the interest rate for such loans shall be the cost of 
borrowing to the Department of the Treasury for obligations of 
comparable maturity: Provided further, That the cost of direct loans 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, $8,910,000, to remain available until 
expended, for a grant program to finance broadband transmission in 
rural areas eligible for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program 
benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE IV</DELETED>

               <DELETED>DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS</DELETED>

<DELETED>Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer 
                           Services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer 
the laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$652,000.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Food and Nutrition Service</DELETED>

              <DELETED>child nutrition programs</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 
21; $13,345,487,000, to remain available through September 30, 2008, of 
which $7,610,897,000 is hereby appropriated and $5,734,590,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That up to $5,335,000 shall 
be available for independent verification of school food service 
claims.</DELETED>

<DELETED>special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and 
                        children (wic)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the special 
supplemental nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $5,244,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2008, of which such sums as are 
necessary to restore the contingency reserve to $125,000,000 shall be 
placed in reserve, to remain available until expended, to be allocated 
as the Secretary deems necessary, notwithstanding section 17(i) of such 
Act, to support participation should cost or participation exceed 
budget estimates: Provided, That amounts over $125,000,000 in the 
contingency reserve shall be treated as general WIC appropriated funds 
rather than contingency reserve funds: Provided further, That of the 
total amount available, the Secretary shall obligate not less than 
$15,000,000 for a breastfeeding support initiative in addition to the 
activities specified in section 17(h)(3)(A): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 17(h)(10)(A) of such Act, only the provisions 
of section 17(h)(10)(B)(i) and section 17(h)(10)(B)(ii) shall be 
effective in 2007; including $14,000,000 for the purposes specified in 
section 17(h)(10)(B)(i) and $20,000,000 for the purposes specified in 
section 17(h)(10)(B)(ii): Provided further, That funds made available 
for the purposes specified in section 17(h)(10)(B)(ii) shall only be 
made available upon a determination by the Secretary that funds are 
available to meet caseload requirements without the use of the 
contingency reserve funds: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be used for studies and 
evaluations: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall 
be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC clinics except those 
that have an announced policy of prohibiting smoking within the space 
used to carry out the program: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided in this account shall be available for the purchase of infant 
formula except in accordance with the cost containment and competitive 
bidding requirements specified in section 17 of such Act: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided shall be available for 
activities that are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government 
departments or agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such 
Act.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>food stamp program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 
U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $37,865,231,000, of which $3,000,000,000 to 
remain available through September 30, 2008, shall be placed in reserve 
for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become necessary 
to carry out program operations: Provided, That funds provided herein 
shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and Training 
under this heading shall remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 5(d) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, any 
additional payment received under chapter 5 of title 37, United States 
Code, by a member of the United States Armed Forces deployed to a 
designated combat zone shall be excluded from household income for the 
duration of the member's deployment if the additional pay is the result 
of deployment to or while serving in a combat zone, and it was not 
received immediately prior to serving in the combat zone.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>commodity assistance program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance 
and the commodity supplemental food program, as authorized by section 
4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 
612c note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special 
assistance for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 
103(f)(2) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as 
authorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 
$189,370,000, to remain available through September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for commodities donated to the program: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective 
with funds made available in fiscal year 2007 to support the Seniors 
Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP), as authorized by section 
4402 of Public Law 107-171, such funds shall remain available through 
September 30, 2008: Provided further, That no funds available for SFMNP 
in fiscal year 2007 shall be used to pay State or local sales taxes on 
food purchased with SFMNP coupons or checks: Provided further, That the 
value of assistance provided by the SFMNP shall not be considered 
income or resources for any purposes under any Federal, State or local 
laws related to taxation, welfare and public assistance programs: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under section 27(a) 
of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), the Secretary 
may use up to $10,000,000 for costs associated with the distribution of 
commodities.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>nutrition programs administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic 
nutrition assistance programs funded under this Act, 
$142,314,000.</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>TITLE V</DELETED>

       <DELETED>FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Foreign Agricultural Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service, including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and 
for enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of 
the Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including 
not to exceed $158,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $156,486,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the United States Agency for International Development.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>public law 480 title i direct credit and food for progress 
                       program account</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit 
program of title I, Public Law 83-480, $2,651,000, to be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries 
and Expenses''.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>public law 480 title ii grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad 
under title II of said Act, $1,223,100,000, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>commodity credit corporation export loans program 
                           account</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity 
Credit Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$5,331,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $4,985,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', including $775,000 to be 
made available for debt recovery, and of which $346,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>mcgovern-dole international food for education and child 
                   nutrition program grants</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 
U.S.C. 1736o-1), $100,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to 
provide the services, facilities, and authorities for the purpose of 
implementing such section, subject to reimbursement from amounts 
provided herein.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE VI</DELETED>

  <DELETED>RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION</DELETED>

       <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Food and Drug Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug 
Administration, including hire and purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles; for payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to 
Public Law 92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug 
Administration which are included in this Act; for rental of special 
purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; for 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and 
notwithstanding section 521 of Public Law 107-188; $1,914,382,000: 
Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, $320,600,000 
shall be derived from prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 
U.S.C. 379h, shall be credited to this account and remain available 
until expended, and shall not include any fees pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 
379h(a)(2) and (a)(3) assessed for fiscal year 2008 but collected in 
fiscal year 2007; $43,726,000 shall be derived from medical device user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended; and $11,604,000 shall be 
derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That fees derived from prescription drug, medical 
device, and animal drug assessments received during fiscal year 2007, 
including any such fees assessed prior to the current fiscal year but 
credited during the current year, shall be subject to the fiscal year 
2007 limitation: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be 
used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user fees 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated: (1) $454,006,000 shall be for the Center for Food 
Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (2) $545,938,000 shall be for the Center for 
Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $194,637,000 shall be for the Center for 
Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $105,595,000 shall be for the 
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the 
Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $253,789,000 shall be for the Center 
for Devices and Radiological Health and for related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $34,118,000 shall be for the 
National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) $62,007,000 shall be 
for Rent and Related activities, of which $25,552,000 is for White Oak 
Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General Services 
Administration for rent; (8) $146,013,000 shall be for payments to the 
General Services Administration for rent; and (9) $118,279,000 shall be 
for other activities, including the Office of the Commissioner; the 
Office of Management; the Office of External Relations; the Office of 
Policy and Planning; and central services for these offices: Provided 
further, That funds may be transferred from one specified activity to 
another with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
263b may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, export certification user fees authorized by 
21 U.S.C. 381 may be credited to this account, to remain available 
until expended.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>buildings and facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$4,950,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>INDEPENDENT AGENCIES</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Commodity Futures Trading Commission</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include 
multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
$109,402,000, including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Farm Credit Administration</DELETED>

        <DELETED>limitation on administrative expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not to exceed $44,250,000 (from assessments collected from 
farm credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE VII</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

   <DELETED>(including rescissions and transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 292 passenger motor vehicles, of which 290 shall 
be for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 702. New obligational authority provided for the 
following appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until 
expended: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the contingency 
fund to meet emergency conditions, information technology 
infrastructure, fruit fly program, emerging plant pests, cotton pests 
program, low pathogen avian influenza program, high pathogen avian 
influenza program, up to $33,107,000 in animal health monitoring and 
surveillance for the animal identification system, up to $682,000 in 
the brucellosis program for indemnities, up to $2,888,000 in the 
chronic wasting disease program for indemnities, up to $3,934,000 in 
the scrapie program for indemnities, up to $2,387,000 in the 
tuberculosis program for indemnities, up to $4,900,000 in the emergency 
management systems program for the vaccine bank, up to $1,000,000 for 
wildlife services methods development, up to $1,000,000 of the wildlife 
services operations program for aviation safety, and up to 25 percent 
of the screwworm program; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field 
automation and information management project; Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service, funds for competitive 
research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), funds for the Research, Education, 
and Economics Information System, and funds for the Native American 
Institutions Endowment Fund; Farm Service Agency, salaries and expenses 
funds made available to county committees; Foreign Agricultural 
Service, middle-income country training program, and up to $2,000,000 
of the Foreign Agricultural Service appropriation solely for the 
purpose of offsetting fluctuations in international currency exchange 
rates, subject to documentation by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 703. The Secretary of Agriculture may transfer 
unobligated balances of discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or 
other available unobligated discretionary balances of the Department of 
Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of plant 
and capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
financial management modernization initiative, administrative, and 
information technology services of primary benefit to the agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available by this Act or any other Act shall be transferred to the 
Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of the agency 
administrator: Provided further, That none of the funds transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall be available 
for obligation without the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 704. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
year unless expressly so provided herein.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 705. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
pay negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 706. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
to pay indirect costs charged against competitive agricultural 
research, education, or extension grant awards issued by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service that 
exceed 22 percent of total Federal funds provided under each award: 
Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
Extension Service shall be available to pay full allowable indirect 
costs for each grant awarded under section 9 of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 638).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 707. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture 
for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the 
current fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 708. Of the funds made available by this Act, not 
more than $1,800,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of 
activities related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and 
task forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 709. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used to carry out section 410 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 
U.S.C. 679a) or section 30 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 
U.S.C. 471).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 710. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may 
be detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to 
any other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days 
unless the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed 
by the receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the 
employee for the period of assignment.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 711. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture or the Food and Drug 
Administration shall be used to transmit or otherwise make available to 
any non-Department of Agriculture or non-Department of Health and Human 
Services employee questions or responses to questions that are a result 
of information requested for the appropriations hearing 
process.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 712. None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new 
information technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined 
by the Office of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of 
the Chief Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive 
Information Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be transferred 
to the Office of the Chief Information Officer without the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects over $25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by the 
Chief Information Officer.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 713. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or 
provided by previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this 
Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current 
fiscal year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
United States derived by the collection of fees available to the 
agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds which--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) creates new programs;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) eliminates a program, project, or 
        activity;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
        any project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) relocates an office or employees;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; 
        or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
        activities presently performed by Federal employees; unless the 
        Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
        notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
        funds.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
for activities, programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds 
in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) 
augments existing programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 
percent funding for any existing program, project, or activity, or 
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) 
results from any general savings from a reduction in personnel which 
would result in a change in existing programs, activities, or projects 
as approved by Congress; unless the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress before implementing a program or activity not carried out 
during the previous fiscal year unless the program or activity is 
funded by this Act or specifically funded by any other Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 714. None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who prepare or submit appropriations language as part of the 
President's Budget submission to the Congress of the United States for 
programs under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittees on 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a reduction from the 
previous year due to user fees proposals that have not been enacted 
into law prior to the submission of the Budget unless such Budget 
submission identifies which additional spending reductions should occur 
in the event the user fees proposals are not enacted prior to the date 
of the convening of a committee of conference for the fiscal year 2008 
Appropriations Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 715. None of the funds made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to close or relocate a State Rural Development 
office unless or until cost effectiveness and enhancement of program 
delivery have been determined.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 716. In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated or 
made available by this Act, $2,500,000 is appropriated for the purpose 
of providing Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland Hunger Fellowships, through 
the Congressional Hunger Center.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 717. There is hereby appropriated $250,000 for a 
grant to the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center, to remain 
available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 718. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the funds made available in this Act for competitive research grants (7 
U.S.C. 450i(b)), the Secretary may use up to 30 percent of the amount 
provided to carry out a competitive grants program under the same terms 
and conditions as those provided in section 401 of the Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 
7621).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 719. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer 
the program authorized by section 14(h)(1) of the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1012(h)(1)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 720. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer 
the calendar year 2007 wetlands reserve program as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 3837 in excess of 144,776 acres.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 721. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer an 
environmental quality incentives program authorized by chapter 4 of 
subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3839aa et seq.) in excess of $1,087,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 722. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
program authorized by section 601(j)(1) of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950bb(j)(1)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available in fiscal year 
2006 or preceding fiscal years for programs authorized under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 
1691 et seq.) in excess of $20,000,000 shall be used to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for the release of eligible commodities 
under section 302(f)(2)(A) of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1736f-1): Provided, That any such funds made available to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation shall only be used pursuant 
to section 302(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 724. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
program authorized by section 6401 of Public Law 107-171, in excess of 
$28,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 725. Notwithstanding subsections (c) and (e)(2) of 
section 313A of the Rural Electrification Act (7 U.S.C. 940c(c) and 
(e)(2)) in implementing section 313A of that Act, the Secretary shall, 
with the consent of the lender, structure the schedule for payment of 
the annual fee, not to exceed an average of 30 basis points per year 
for the term of the loan, to ensure that sufficient funds are available 
to pay the subsidy costs for note guarantees under that 
section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 726. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
conservation security program authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3838 et seq., in 
excess of $280,173,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 727. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
program authorized by section 2502 of Public Law 107-171, in excess of 
$55,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 728. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
program authorized by section 2503 of Public Law 107-171, in excess of 
$50,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 729. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
ground and surface water conservation program authorized by section 
2301 of Public Law 107-171, in excess of $51,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 730. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
be used to issue a final rule in furtherance of, or otherwise 
implement, the proposed rule on cost-sharing for animal and plant 
health emergency programs of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service published on July 8, 2003 (Docket No. 02-062-1; 68 Fed. Reg. 
40541).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 731. Funds made available under section 1240I and 
section 1241(a) of the Food Security Act of 1985 in the current fiscal 
year shall remain available until expended to disburse obligations made 
in the current fiscal year, and are not available for new obligations. 
Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act, 7 U.S.C. 1524(b), in fiscal years 2004, 2005, and 2006 shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in fiscal 
years 2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively, and are not available for new 
obligations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 732. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
Rural Development shall provide grants from funds available for the 
Rural Community Advancement Program for the Ohio Livestock Expo Center 
in Springfield, Ohio, in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 733. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer an 
agricultural management assistance program authorized by section 524 of 
the Federal Crop Insurance Act, in excess of $6,000,000 (7 U.S.C. 
1524).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 734. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used for salaries and expenses to draft or implement any regulation or 
rule insofar as it would require recertification of rural status for 
each electric and telecommunications borrower for the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 735. Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, 
none of the funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive 
branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story intended for 
broadcast or distribution in the United States unless the story 
includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 736. In addition to other amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act, there is hereby appropriated to 
the Secretary of Agriculture $15,600,000, of which not to exceed 5 
percent may be available for administrative expenses, to remain 
available until expended, to make specialty crop block grants under 
section 101 of the Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public 
Law 108-465; 7 U.S.C. 1621 note).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 737. No funds shall be used to pay salaries and 
expenses of the Department of Agriculture to carry out or administer a 
program authorized by section 18(g)(6)(B)(i) of the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)(6)(B)(i)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 738. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
there is hereby appropriated $25,000,000, of which not to exceed 5 
percent may be available for administrative expenses, to carry out 
section 18(g) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769(g) in each State and on Indian reservations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 739. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to study, complete a study of, or enter into a contract with a 
private party to carry out, without specific authorization in a 
subsequent Act of Congress, a competitive sourcing activity of the 
Secretary of Agriculture, including support personnel of the Department 
of Agriculture, relating to rural development or farm loan 
programs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 740. Of the unobligated balances under section 32 of 
the Act of August 24, 1935, $9,900,000 are hereby rescinded.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 741. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay salaries and expenses of 
personnel who implement or administer section 508(e)(3) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(e)(3)) or any regulation, bulletin, 
policy or agency guidance issued pursuant to section 508(e)(3) of such 
Act for the 2007 and the 2008 reinsurance years, except that funds are 
available to administer section 508(e)(3) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act for policies in effect as of the date of enactment of this 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 742. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) to grant a waiver of a financial conflict of 
        interest requirement pursuant to section 505(n)(4) of the 
        Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for any voting member of 
        an advisory committee or panel of the Food and Drug 
        Administration; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) to make a certification under section 
        208(b)(3) of title 18, United States Code, for any such voting 
        member.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 743. Section 739 of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriation Act, 2001 (H.R. 5426 as enacted by Public Law 106-387, 
115 Stat. 1549A-34) is amended by striking ``2 percent'' and inserting 
``3 percent''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 744. Of the unobligated balances available in the 
High Energy Cost Grants account, $25,265,000 is hereby 
rescinded.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 745. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purposes of title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et 
seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture shall consider the City of 
Atascadero, California, the City of Paso Robles, California, the City 
of Freeport, Illinois, and Kitsap County (except the City of 
Bremerton), Washington, as meeting the requirements of a rural area 
contained in section 520 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490) until the receipt 
of the decennial Census in the year 2010.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 746. Of the appropriations available for payments for 
the nutrition and family education program for low-income areas under 
section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(d)), if the payment 
allocation pursuant to section 1425(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)) 
would be less than $100,000 for any institution eligible under section 
3(d)(2) of the Smith-Lever Act, the Secretary shall adjust payment 
allocations under section 1425(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to ensure that 
each institution receives a payment of not less than 
$100,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 747. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to implement the final rule published by the Secretary of 
Agriculture on April 24, 2006, amending part 381 of title 9 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations to add the People's Republic of China to the 
list of countries eligible to export poultry products to the United 
States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 748. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to prohibit the use of non-government electronic certification 
forms that verify properly certified results of equine infectious 
anemia testing for the purpose of interstate or international shipment 
of tested animals.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 749. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act for the Food and Drug Administration may be used 
under section 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to 
prevent an individual not in the business of importing a prescription 
drug within the meaning of section 801(g) of such Act, wholesalers, or 
pharmacists from importing a prescription drug which complies with 
sections 501, 502, and 505.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 750. The limitation in section 721 shall not apply 
below a program level of $1,127,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 751. None of the funds provided by this Act for the 
Agricultural Research Service may be obligated or expended to reprogram 
programs and resources currently operating at Lane, Oklahoma.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 752. None of the funds made available by this Act 
shall be used in contravention of the Federal buildings performance and 
reporting requirements of Executive Order No. 13123, the National 
Energy Conservation Policy Act, and the Energy Policy Act of 
2005.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 753. Not more than $3,600,000 of the funds made 
available in this Act under section 522(e) of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(e)) may be used for program compliance 
integrity under section 515 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1515).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 754. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used in contravention of section 303 of the Energy Policy Act of 
1992 (42 U.S.C. 13212).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 755. Of the total amount made available in title VI 
in the first undesignated paragraph under the heading ``Food and Drug 
Administration--salaries and expenses'', $1,000,000 is available to the 
Center for Veterinary Medicine for application review activities to 
assure the safety of animal drugs with respect to antimicrobial 
resistance, pursuant to section 512 of the Federal Food, Drug and 
Cosmetic Act, in addition to all other allocations for such purpose 
made from such total amount.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 756. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 
employees from a Federal department or agency at any single conference 
occurring outside the United States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 757. None of the funds provided under the heading 
``TITLE IV--DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS--food stamp program'' shall be 
expended in contravention of section 213a of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183a).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2007''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, $10,515,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this 
amount shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary.

                          Executive Operations

                            chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, energy and new uses, 
and the functions of the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as 
authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), 
$11,226,000.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, 
$14,795,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $8,479,000.

                        homeland security staff

    For necessary expenses of the Homeland Security Staff, $954,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $16,936,000.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $11,667,000, of which $5,676,000 shall be available until 
expended: Provided, That no funds made available by this appropriation 
may be obligated for FAIR Act or Circular A-76 activities until the 
Secretary has submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a report on the Department's contracting out 
policies, including agency budgets for contracting out.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Civil Rights, $836,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $22,650,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration, $681,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $209,814,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $155,851,000 shall be available for payments to the General 
Services Administration for rent and the Department of Homeland 
Security for building security: Provided, That amounts which are made 
available for space rental and related costs for the Department of 
Agriculture in this Act may be transferred between such appropriations 
to cover the costs of additional, new, or replacement space 15 days 
after notice thereof is transmitted to the Appropriations Committees of 
both Houses of Congress.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $12,020,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials Management 
may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.

                      Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $24,114,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration, security, repairs and 
alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not 
otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and efficient 
work of the Department: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
reimbursed from applicable appropriations in this Act for travel 
expenses incident to the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 
551-558.

     Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
by this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,830,000: Provided, That these 
funds may be transferred to agencies of the Department of Agriculture 
funded by this Act to maintain personnel at the agency level: Provided 
further, That no funds made available by this appropriation may be 
obligated after 30 days from the date of enactment of this Act, unless 
the Secretary has notified the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress on the allocation of these funds by USDA agency: 
Provided further, That no other funds appropriated to the Department by 
this Act shall be available to the Department for support of activities 
of congressional relations.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry out services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the 
dissemination of agricultural information, and the coordination of 
information, work, and programs authorized by Congress in the 
Department, $9,695,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000,000 may be 
used for farmers' bulletins.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$82,493,000, including such sums as may be necessary for contracting 
and other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, and 
including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended under the 
direction of the Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and 
section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$40,647,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$605,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, $75,963,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, 
$148,719,000, of which up to $36,582,000 shall be available until 
expended for the Census of Agriculture.

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent 
of the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $1,127,553,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and 
the purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 
U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings 
and improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of 
constructing any one building shall not exceed $375,000, except for 
headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,200,000, 
and except for 10 buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not 
to exceed $750,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building or $375,000, whichever is greater: 
Provided further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this 
Act shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing 
facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center: Provided further, That the 
foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings 
needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): 
Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to the 
purchase of land at Florence, South Carolina: Provided further, That 
funds may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing or 
operating any research facility or research project of the Agricultural 
Research Service, as authorized by law: Provided further, That the 
Secretary, through the Agricultural Research Service, or successor, is 
authorized to lease approximately 40 acres of land at the Central 
Plains Experiment Station, Nunn, Colorado, to the Board of Governors of 
the Colorado State University System, for its Shortgrass Steppe 
Biological Field Station, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
deems in the public interest: Provided further, That the Secretary 
understands that it is the intent of the University to construct 
research and educational buildings on the subject acreage and to 
conduct agricultural research and educational activities in these 
buildings: Provided further, That as consideration for a lease, the 
Secretary may accept the benefits of mutual cooperative research to be 
conducted by the Colorado State University and the Government at the 
Shortgrass Steppe Biological Field Station: Provided further, That the 
term of any lease shall be for no more than 20 years, but a lease may 
be renewed at the option of the Secretary on such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary deems in the public interest: Provided further, That 
the Agricultural Research Service may convey all rights and title of 
the United States, to a parcel of land comprising 19 acres, more or 
less, located in Section 2, Township 18 North, Range 14 East in 
Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, originally conveyed by the Board of 
Trustees of the Institution of Higher Learning of the State of 
Mississippi, and described in instruments recorded in Deed Book 306 at 
pages 553-554, Deed Book 319 at page 219, and Deed Book 33 at page 115, 
of the public land records of Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, including 
facilities, and fixed equipment, to the Mississippi State University, 
Starkville, Mississippi, in their ``as is'' condition, when vacated by 
the Agricultural Research Service: Provided further, That hereafter 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing, or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $83,400,000, 
to remain available until expended.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$678,089,000, as follows: to carry out the provisions of the Hatch Act 
of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 361a-i), $185,817,000; for grants for cooperative 
forestry research (16 U.S.C. 582a through a-7), $23,318,000; for 
payments to the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University 
and West Virginia State University (7 U.S.C. 3222), $39,076,000, of 
which $1,507,496 shall be made available only for the purpose of 
ensuring that each institution shall receive no less than $1,000,000; 
for special grants for agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)), 
$119,341,000; for special grants for agricultural research on improved 
pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)), $14,650,000; for competitive research 
grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), $190,229,000; for the support of animal 
health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195), $5,006,000; for 
supplemental and alternative crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d), 
$825,000; for grants for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural 
Materials Act (7 U.S.C. 178 et seq.), $1,091,000, to remain available 
until expended; for the 1994 research grants program for 1994 
institutions pursuant to section 536 of Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 
301 note), $2,058,000, to remain available until expended; for 
rangeland research grants (7 U.S.C. 3333), $990,000; for higher 
education graduate fellowship grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), $3,701,000, 
to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); for a veterinary 
medicine loan repayment program pursuant to section 1415A of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), $750,000, to remain available until 
expended; for higher education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)), 
$5,423,000; for a higher education multicultural scholars program (7 
U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), $988,000, to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b); for an education grants program for Hispanic-serving 
Institutions (7 U.S.C. 3241), $6,237,000; for noncompetitive grants for 
the purpose of carrying out all provisions of 7 U.S.C. 3242 (section 
759 of Public Law 106-78) to individual eligible institutions or 
consortia of eligible institutions in Alaska and in Hawaii, with funds 
awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii, $3,218,000; 
for a secondary agriculture education program and 2-year post-secondary 
education (7 U.S.C. 3152(j)), $990,000; for aquaculture grants (7 
U.S.C. 3322), $3,928,000; for sustainable agriculture research and 
education (7 U.S.C. 5811), $12,276,000; for a program of capacity 
building grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive 
funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), 
including Tuskegee University and West Virginia State University, 
$12,375,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); for 
payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 534(a)(1) of 
Public Law 103-382, $4,456,000; and for necessary expenses of Research 
and Education Activities, $41,346,000, of which $2,723,000 for the 
Research, Education, and Economics Information System and $2,151,000 
for the Electronic Grants Information System, are to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That hereafter none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available to carry out research related to 
the production, processing, or marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products: Provided further, That hereafter this paragraph shall not 
apply to research on the medical, biotechnological, food, and 
industrial uses of tobacco.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American 
Samoa, $467,102,000, as follows: payments for cooperative extension 
work under the Smith-Lever Act, to be distributed under sections 3(b) 
and 3(c) of said Act, and under section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, 
for retirement and employees' compensation costs for extension agents, 
$286,622,000; payments for extension work at the 1994 Institutions 
under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $3,402,000; payments 
for the nutrition and family education program for low-income areas 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $63,538,000; payments for the pest 
management program under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,860,000; payments 
for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $4,517,000; 
payments for New Technologies for Ag Extension under Section 3(d) of 
the Act, $1,985,000; payments to upgrade research, extension, and 
teaching facilities at the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee 
University and West Virginia State University, as authorized by section 
1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $16,609,000, to remain 
available until expended; payments for youth-at-risk programs under 
section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act, $7,651,000; for youth farm safety 
education and certification extension grants, to be awarded 
competitively under section 3(d) of the Act, $440,000; payments for 
carrying out the provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 
1978 (16 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.), $4,220,000; payments for federally-
recognized Tribes Extension Program under section 3(d) of the Smith-
Lever Act, $1,976,000; payments for sustainable agriculture programs 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $4,026,000; payments for rural health 
and safety education as authorized by section 502(i) of Public Law 92-
419 (7 U.S.C. 2662(i)), $1,946,000; payments for cooperative extension 
work by the colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act 
(7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328) and Tuskegee University and West Virginia 
State University, $35,205,000, of which $1,724,884 shall be made 
available only for the purpose of ensuring that each institution shall 
receive no less than $1,000,000; for grants to youth organizations 
pursuant to section 7630 of title 7, United States Code, $1,980,000; 
and for necessary expenses of Extension Activities, $23,125,000.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $58,704,000, as 
follows: for competitive grants programs authorized under section 406 
of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 
1998 (7 U.S.C. 7626), $43,369,000, including $12,738,000 for the water 
quality program, $14,699,000 for the food safety program, $4,125,000 
for the regional pest management centers program, $4,419,000 for the 
Food Quality Protection Act risk mitigation program for major food crop 
systems, $1,375,000 for the crops affected by Food Quality Protection 
Act implementation, $3,075,000 for the methyl bromide transition 
program, and $1,948,000 for the organic transition program; for a 
competitive international science and education grants program 
authorized under section 1459A of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3292b), to remain 
available until expended, $990,000; for grants programs authorized 
under section 2(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 89-106, as amended, $737,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2008 for the critical issues 
program; and $1,321,000 for the regional rural development centers 
program; $2,277,000 for asian soybean rust; and $11,000,000 for the 
Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative authorized under section 1484 
of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Act of 
1977, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

              outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$5,940,000, to remain available until expended.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; the Agricultural Marketing Service; and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; $731,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to prevent, 
control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to carry 
out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; and to protect 
the environment, as authorized by law, $900,423,000, of which 
$4,127,000 shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, 
plant diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
birds to the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions; of which 
$38,200,000 shall be used for the boll weevil eradication program for 
cost share purposes or for debt retirement for active eradication 
zones; of which $33,107,000 shall be available for a National Animal 
Identification program; of which $56,730,000 shall be used to conduct a 
surveillance and preparedness program for highly pathogenic avian 
influenza: Provided, That no funds shall be used to formulate or 
administer a brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal 
year that does not require minimum matching by the States of at least 
40 percent: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall be for replacement 
only: Provided further, That, in addition, in emergencies which 
threaten any segment of the agricultural production industry of this 
country, the Secretary may transfer from other appropriations or funds 
available to the agencies or corporations of the Department such sums 
as may be deemed necessary, to be available only in such emergencies 
for the arrest and eradication of contagious or infectious disease or 
pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for expenses in accordance 
with sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 
U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unexpended balances of funds 
transferred for such emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal year 
shall be merged with such transferred amounts: Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 2007, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $5,946,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry out services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, 
and regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration 
and coordination of payments to States, $71,170,000, including funds 
for the wholesale market development program for the design and 
development of wholesale and farmer market facilities for the major 
metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $62,211,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, including not 
less than $10,000,000 for replacement of a system to support commodity 
purchases, except for: (1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as 
authorized by the Fish and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) 
transfers otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than 
$16,425,000 for formulation and administration of marketing agreements 
and orders pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 
and the Agricultural Act of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$3,834,000, of which not less than $2,500,000 shall be used to make a 
grant under this heading.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain 
under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, $38,737,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but 
the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $42,463,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the 
Congress for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $607,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $50,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $865,905,000, of which no 
less than $777,189,000 shall be available for Federal food safety 
inspection; and in addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account 
from fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
authorized by section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Provided, That no fewer than 63 full 
time equivalent positions above the fiscal year 2002 level shall be 
employed during fiscal year 2007 for purposes dedicated solely to 
inspections and enforcement related to the Humane Methods of Slaughter 
Act: Provided further, That of the amount available under this heading, 
notwithstanding section 704 of this Act $3,000,000, available until 
September 30, 2008, shall be obligated to maintain the Humane Animal 
Tracking System as part of the Field Automation and Information 
Management System: Provided further, That of the total amount made 
available under this heading, no less than $20,653,000 shall be 
obligated for regulatory and scientific training: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but 
the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $640,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$1,151,779,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to 
and merged with this account.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $4,208,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $3,713,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, $100,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such program is carried out by the Secretary in the same 
manner as the dairy indemnity program described in the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 
U.S.C. 488), and boll weevil loans (7 U.S.C. 1989), to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $1,422,750,000, of which $1,200,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $222,750,000 shall be for direct 
loans; operating loans, $1,941,360,000, of which $1,025,610,000 shall 
be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $272,250,000 shall be for 
subsidized guaranteed loans and $643,500,000 shall be for direct loans; 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans, $3,960,000; and for boll weevil 
eradication program loans, $59,400,000: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the purpose of 
boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $16,293,000, of which 
$6,960,000 shall be for guaranteed loans, and $9,333,000 shall be for 
direct loans; operating loans, $127,973,000, of which $25,332,000 shall 
be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $27,416,000 shall be for 
subsidized guaranteed loans, and $75,225,000 shall be for direct loans; 
and Indian tribe land acquisition loans, $838,000; and boll weevil 
eradication program loans, $1,129,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $319,657,000, of which 
$311,737,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership and operating direct loans and 
guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs: Provided, 
That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel to 
collect from the lender an annual fee on unsubsidized guaranteed 
operating loans, a guarantee fee of more than one percent of the 
principal obligation of guaranteed unsubsidized operating or ownership 
loans, or a guarantee fee on subsidized guaranteed operating loans 
administered by the Farm Service Agency.

                         Risk Management Agency

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by section 
226A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6933), $78,477,000: Provided, That the Secretary of Agriculture 
may use an amount not to exceed $3,600,000 of unobligated funds made 
available under section 522(e) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 
U.S.C. 1522(e)) for program integrity purposes, including the data 
mining project: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11): Provided, That of the funds 
available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
6961).

              farm storage facility loans program account

    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the Farm Storage 
and Sugar Storage Facility Loan Programs, $4,560,000, to be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for Farm Service Agency, Salaries 
and Expenses.

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, $752,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$835,331,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, of which 
not less than $10,698,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting, and 
not less than $10,678,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers, and of which not less than $27,255,000 shall 
be for the grazing lands conservation initiative: Provided, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 
for construction and improvement of buildings and public improvements 
at plant materials centers, except that the cost of alterations and 
improvements to other buildings and other public improvements shall not 
exceed $250,000: Provided further, That when buildings or other 
structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the right to use such 
land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for technical assistance and 
related expenses to carry out programs authorized by section 202(c) of 
title II of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 
U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That qualified local engineers may 
be temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the technical 
planning work of the Service.

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1009), $6,022,000.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing 
works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-
1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), 
and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $62,070,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which up to $10,000,000 may be available for the 
watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 
U.S.C. 1006a): Provided, That not to exceed $30,000,000 of this 
appropriation shall be available for technical assistance: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is 
available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93-205), including cooperative efforts as contemplated 
by that Act to relocate endangered or threatened species to other 
suitable habitats as may be necessary to expedite project construction.

                    watershed rehabilitation program

    For necessary expenses to carry out rehabilitation of structural 
measures, in accordance with section 14 of the Watershed Protection and 
Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1012), and in accordance with the 
provisions of laws relating to the activities of the Department, 
$31,245,000, to remain available until expended.

                 resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant 
to the provisions of sections 31 and 32 of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607); the Act of April 27, 
1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f); and subtitle H of title XV of the Agriculture 
and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-3461), $50,787,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    healthy forests reserve program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Healthy Forests Reserve 
Program authorized under title V of Public Law 108-148 (16 U.S.C. 6571-
6578), $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service, 
$640,000.

                  rural community advancement program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932, except for 
sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act, $714,958,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$101,764,000 shall be for rural community programs described in section 
381E(d)(1) of such Act; of which $524,960,000 shall be for the rural 
utilities programs described in sections 381E(d)(2), 306C(a)(2), and 
306D of such Act, of which not to exceed $500,000 shall be available 
for the rural utilities program described in section 306(a)(2)(B) of 
such Act, and of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for 
the rural utilities program described in section 306E of such Act; and 
of which $88,234,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs described in sections 381E(d)(3) and 310B(f) of 
such Act: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated in this 
account, $26,000,000 shall be for loans and grants to benefit Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes, including grants for drinking water 
and waste disposal systems pursuant to section 306C of such Act, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be available for community facilities grants to 
tribal colleges, as authorized by section 306(a)(19) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and of which $250,000 
shall be available for a grant to a qualified national organization to 
provide technical assistance for rural transportation in order to 
promote economic development: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated for rural community programs, $6,287,000 shall be 
available for a Rural Community Development Initiative: Provided 
further, That such funds shall be used solely to develop the capacity 
and ability of private, nonprofit community-based housing and community 
development organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve 
housing, community facilities, community and economic development 
projects in rural areas: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
made available to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary 
organizations proposing to carry out a program of financial and 
technical assistance: Provided further, That such intermediary 
organizations shall provide matching funds from other sources, 
including Federal funds for related activities, in an amount not less 
than funds provided: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated 
for the rural business and cooperative development programs, not to 
exceed $500,000 shall be made available for a grant to a qualified 
national organization to provide technical assistance for rural 
transportation in order to promote economic development; $2,500,000 
shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 1921 et 
seq.) for any purpose under this heading, of which not more than five 
percent may be used for administrative expenses, including conferences: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for rural utilities 
programs, not to exceed $25,000,000 shall be for water and waste 
disposal systems to benefit the Colonias along the United States/Mexico 
border, including grants pursuant to section 306C of such Act; 
$25,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal systems for rural and 
native villages in Alaska pursuant to section 306D of such Act, with up 
to 2 percent available to administer the program and/or improve 
interagency coordination may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses'', of 
which $100,000 shall be provided to develop a regional system for 
centralized billing, operation, and management of rural water and sewer 
utilities through regional cooperatives, of which 25 percent shall be 
provided for water and sewer projects in regional hubs, and the State 
of Alaska shall provide a 25 percent cost share, and grantees may use 
up to 5 percent of grant funds, not to exceed $35,000 per community, 
for the completion of comprehensive community safe water plans; not to 
exceed $19,000,000 shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
water and waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, 
unless the Secretary makes a determination of extreme need, of which 
$5,600,000 shall be for Rural Community Assistance Programs and not 
less than $850,000 shall be for a qualified national Native American 
organization to provide technical assistance for rural water systems 
for tribal communities; and not to exceed $13,750,000 shall be for 
contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit rider 
program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$21,367,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for authorized 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities designated 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership 
Zones; of which $1,067,000 shall be for the rural community programs 
described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act, of which $12,000,000 shall 
be for the rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of 
such Act, and of which $8,300,000 shall be for the rural business and 
cooperative development programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of 
such Act: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for rural 
community programs, $21,000,000 shall be to provide grants for 
facilities in rural communities with extreme unemployment and severe 
economic depression (Public Law 106-387), with 5 percent for 
administration and capacity building in the State rural development 
offices: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, $26,000,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Rural Utilities Service, 
High Energy Cost Grants Account'' to provide grants authorized under 
section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a): 
Provided further, That any prior year balances for high cost energy 
grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 
1936 (7 U.S.C. 901(19)) shall be transferred to and merged with the 
``Rural Utilities Service, High Energy Costs Grants Account''.

                Rural Development Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs in the Rural Development mission area, 
including activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$176,522,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds appropriated under this section may be used for advertising 
and promotional activities that support the Rural Development mission 
area: Provided further, That not more than $10,000 may be expended to 
provide modest nonmonetary awards to non-USDA employees: Provided 
further, That any balances available from prior years for the Rural 
Utilities Service, Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service salaries and expenses accounts shall be transferred 
to and merged with this appropriation.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $4,773,614,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $1,129,391,000 shall be for 
direct loans, and of which $3,644,223,000 shall be for unsubsidized 
guaranteed loans; $34,652,000 for section 504 housing repair loans; 
$100,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; $100,000,000 for section 
538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; $5,000,000 for section 524 
site loans; $11,482,000 for credit sales of acquired property, of which 
up to $1,482,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and $4,980,000 
for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $155,919,000, of which 
$113,278,000 shall be for direct loans, and of which $42,641,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $10,240,000; repair, 
rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental housing, 
$45,880,000; section 538 multi-family housing guaranteed loans, 
$7,740,000; credit sales of acquired property, $720,000; and section 
523 self-help housing and development loans, $123,000: Provided, That 
of the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, $2,500,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2007, for authorized empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities and communities designated by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones: Provided further, 
That any funds under this paragraph initially allocated by the 
Secretary for housing projects in the State of Alaska that are not 
obligated by September 30, 2007, shall be carried over until September 
30, 2008, and made available for such housing projects only in the 
State of Alaska: Provided further, That any obligated balances for a 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of the 
section 515 multi-family rental housing properties as authorized in 
Public Law 109-97 shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Rural 
Housing Service, Multifamily Housing Revitalization Program Account''.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $455,776,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses'', of which not less than $1,000,000 
shall be made available for the Secretary to contract with third 
parties to acquire the necessary automation and technical services 
needed to restructure section 515 mortgages.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$335,400,000, to remain available through September 30, 2008; and, in 
addition, such sums as may be necessary, as authorized by section 
521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 
to carry out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of 
the Act: Provided, That of this amount, up to $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed 
$50,000 per project for advances to nonprofit organizations or public 
agencies to cover direct costs (other than purchase price) incurred in 
purchasing projects pursuant to section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: 
Provided further, That agreements entered into or renewed during the 
current fiscal year shall be funded for a one-year period: Provided 
further, That any unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-
year agreements may be transferred and used for the purposes of any 
debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any existing 
projects; preservation; and rental assistance activities authorized 
under title V of the Act: Provided further, That rental assistance that 
is recovered from projects that are subject to prepayment shall be 
deobligated and reallocated for vouchers and debt forgiveness or 
payments consistent with the requirements of this Act for purposes 
authorized under section 542 and section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing 
Act of 1949, as amended: Provided further, That up to $4,190,000 may be 
used for the purpose of reimbursing funds used for rental assistance 
agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to the authority under 
section 521(a)(2) of the Act for emergency needs related to Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita: Provided further, That rental assistance provided 
under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 2007 for a section 
514/516 project may not be recaptured for use in another project until 
such assistance has remained unused for a period of 12 consecutive 
months, if such project has a waiting list of tenants seeking such 
assistance or the project has rental assistance eligible tenants who 
are not receiving such assistance: Provided further, That such 
recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another section 514/516 project.

           multifamily housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, (without regard to section 542(b)), for 
the cost to conduct a housing demonstration program to provide 
revolving loans for the preservation of low-income multi-family housing 
projects, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration program 
for the preservation and revitalization of the section 515 multi-family 
rental housing properties, $28,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $10,000,000 shall be available for rural housing vouchers to 
any low-income household (including those not receiving rental 
assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 loan 
which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005: Provided further, That 
the amount of such voucher shall be the difference between comparable 
market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent for such 
unit: Provided further, That funds made available for such vouchers, 
shall be subject to the availability of annual appropriations: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
administer such vouchers with current regulations and administrative 
guidance applicable to section 8 housing vouchers administered by the 
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (including 
the ability to pay administrative costs related to delivery of the 
voucher funds): Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that 
the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is not 
needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration programs for the preservation and revitalization of the 
section 515 multifamily rental housing properties described in this 
paragraph: Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $3,000,000 shall be available for loans to private non-
profit organizations, or such non-profit organizations' affiliate loan 
funds and State and local housing finance agencies, to carry out a 
housing demonstration program to provide revolving loans for the 
preservation of low-income multi-family housing projects: Provided 
further, That loans under such demonstration program shall have an 
interest rate of not more than 1 percent direct loan to the recipient: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may defer the interest and 
principal payment to the Rural Housing Service for up to 3 years and 
the term of such loans shall not exceed 30 years: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $15,000,000 shall 
be available for a demonstration program for the preservation and 
revitalization of the section 515 multi-family rental housing 
properties to restructure existing section 515 loans, as the Secretary 
deems appropriate, expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project 
has sufficient resources to preserve the project for the purpose of 
providing safe and affordable housing for low-income residents 
including reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances and incentives required by the Secretary: 
Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that additional 
funds for vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for 
the preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used 
for such vouchers: Provided further, That if Congress enacts 
legislation to permanently authorize a section 515 multi-family rental 
housing loan restructuring program similar to the demonstration program 
described herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $33,660,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$1,000,000 shall be available through June 30, 2007, for authorized 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities designated 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership 
Zones.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants and contracts for very low-income housing repair, 
supervisory and technical assistance, compensation for construction 
defects, and rural housing preservation made by the Rural Housing 
Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 1479(c), 1490e, and 1490m, 
$40,590,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $1,200,000 shall be available through June 
30, 2007, for authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities 
and communities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural 
Economic Area Partnership Zones.

                       farm labor program account

    For the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, as authorized 
by 42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1486, $30,643,000, to remain available until 
expended, for direct farm labor housing loans and domestic farm labor 
housing grants and contracts.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

              rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)), $33,925,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $14,951,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)), of which $1,724,000 
shall be available through June 30, 2007, for Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes and of which $3,449,000 shall be available 
through June 30, 2007, for Mississippi Delta Region counties (as 
determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, $887,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2007, for the cost of direct loans for 
authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area 
Partnership Zones.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,950,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$34,652,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$7,568,000, to remain available until expended.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments in the current fiscal year, as authorized by section 313 of 
the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, $78,514,000 shall not be 
obligated and $78,514,000 are rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $29,500,000, of which $500,000 shall be for a cooperative 
research agreement with a qualified academic institution to conduct 
research on the national economic impact of all types of cooperatives; 
and of which $2,500,000 shall be for cooperative agreements for the 
appropriate technology transfer for rural areas program: Provided, That 
not to exceed $1,500,000 shall be for cooperatives or associations of 
cooperatives whose primary focus is to provide assistance to small, 
minority producers and whose governing board and/or membership is 
comprised of at least 75 percent minority; and of which $20,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for value-added agricultural 
product market development grants, as authorized by section 6401 of the 
Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1621 note).

        rural empowerment zones and enterprise community grants

    For grants in connection with second and third rounds of 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for designated rural empowerment zones and 
rural enterprise communities, as authorized by the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997 and the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277): Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be made available to third round 
empowerment zones, as authorized by the Community Renewal Tax Relief 
Act (Public Law 106-554).

                        renewable energy program

    For the cost of a program of direct loans, loan guarantees, and 
grants, under the same terms and conditions as authorized by section 
9006 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
8106), $25,000,000 for direct and guaranteed renewable energy loans and 
grants: Provided, That the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $99,000,000; municipal rate rural 
electric loans, $99,000,000; loans made pursuant to section 306 of that 
Act, rural electric, $5,000,000,000; Treasury rate direct electric 
loans, $990,000,000; guaranteed electric loans, $99,000,000; guaranteed 
underwriting loans pursuant to section 313A, $1,500,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telecommunications loans, $143,513,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $419,760,000; and for loans made pursuant to 
section 306 of that Act, rural telecommunications loans, $299,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by sections 305 and 306 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of 
rural electric loans, $3,703,000, and the cost of telecommunications 
loans, $657,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 305(d)(2) of 
the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower interest rates may 
exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $39,600,000 which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of the broadband telecommunication loans, 
$500,000,000.
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $5,000,000 shall be made 
available to convert analog to digital operation those noncommercial 
educational television broadcast stations that serve rural areas and 
are qualified for Community Service Grants by the Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting under section 396(k) of the Communications Act of 
1934, including associated translators and repeaters, regardless of the 
location of their main transmitter, studio-to-transmitter links, and 
equipment to allow local control over digital content and programming 
through the use of high-definition broadcast, multi-casting and 
datacasting technologies.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 901 et 
seq., $10,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: 
Provided, That the interest rate for such loans shall be the cost of 
borrowing to the Department of the Treasury for obligations of 
comparable maturity: Provided further, That the cost of direct loans 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.
    In addition, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
grant program to finance broadband transmission in rural areas eligible 
for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 950aaa.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$604,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$13,654,487,000, to remain available through September 30, 2008, of 
which $7,923,414,000 is hereby appropriated and $5,731,073,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $300,000,000 shall be placed in reserve 
and used only in such amounts and at such times as may become necessary 
to carry out program operations: Provided further, That up to 
$5,335,000 shall be available for independent verification of school 
food service claims: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $9,000,000, available until September 30, 2008, of 
which not to exceed 5 percent may be available for Federal 
administrative expenses, shall be used to carry out section 120 of 
Public Law 108-265 in an additional 9 States.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $5,264,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2008, of which such sums as are necessary to 
restore the contingency reserve to $125,000,000 shall be placed in 
reserve, to remain available until expended, to be allocated as the 
Secretary deems necessary, notwithstanding section 17(i) of such Act, 
to support participation should cost or participation exceed budget 
estimates: Provided, That amounts over $125,000,000 in the contingency 
reserve shall be treated as general WIC appropriated funds rather than 
contingency reserve funds: Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, the Secretary shall obligate not less than $15,000,000 for a 
breastfeeding support initiative in addition to the activities 
specified in section 17(h)(3)(A): Provided further, That only the 
provisions of section 17(h)(10)(B)(i) and section 17(h)(10)(B)(ii) 
shall be effective in 2007; including $14,000,000 for the purposes 
specified in section 17(h)(10)(B)(i) and $20,000,000 for the purposes 
specified in section 17(h)(10)(B)(ii): Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses 
of WIC clinics except those that have an announced policy of 
prohibiting smoking within the space used to carry out the program: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this account shall 
be available for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance 
with the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements 
specified in section 17 of such Act: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided shall be available for activities that are not fully 
reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or agencies unless 
authorized by section 17 of such Act.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $37,865,231,000, of which $3,000,000,000 to remain 
available through September 30, 2008, shall be placed in reserve for 
use only in such amounts and at such times as may become necessary to 
carry out program operations: Provided, That funds provided herein 
shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and Training 
under this heading shall remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading may be used to enter into contracts 
and employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct 
activities related to food stamp program integrity provided that such 
activities are authorized by the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 5(d) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, any 
additional payment received under chapter 5 of title 37, United States 
Code, by a member of the United States Armed Forces deployed to a 
designated combat zone shall be excluded from household income for the 
duration of the member's deployment if the additional pay is the result 
of deployment to or while serving in a combat zone, and it was not 
received immediately prior to serving in the combat zone.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
commodity supplemental food program, as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
(in a form determined by the Secretary of Agriculture) for the nuclear 
affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the Compact of 
Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188); and the 
Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 17(m) of 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $179,366,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2008: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, effective with funds made available in fiscal 
year 2007 to support the Seniors Farmers' Market Nutrition Program 
(SFMNP), as authorized by section 4402 of Public Law 107-171, such 
funds shall remain available through September 30, 2008: Provided 
further, That hereafter no funds available for SFMNP shall be used to 
pay State or local sales taxes on food purchased with SFMNP coupons or 
checks: Provided further, That hereafter the value of assistance 
provided by the SFMNP shall not be considered income or resources for 
any purposes under any Federal, State or local laws related to 
taxation, welfare and public assistance programs: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food Stamp 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), the Secretary may use up to 
$10,000,000 for costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic nutrition 
assistance programs funded under this Act, $143,114,000.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $158,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $156,186,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the United States Agency for International Development.

  public law 480 title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Public Law 83-480 and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, 
$2,651,000, to be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                     public law 480 title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad 
under title II of said Act, $1,225,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

       commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$5,331,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $4,985,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $346,000 
may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $100,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of 
Public Law 107-188; $1,941,646,000: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $320,600,000 shall be derived from 
prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended, and shall 
not include any fees pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 379h(a)(2) and (a)(3) 
assessed for fiscal year 2008 but collected in fiscal year 2007; 
$43,726,000 shall be derived from medical device user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended; and $11,604,000 shall be derived from animal 
drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to 
this account and remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That fees derived from prescription drug, medical device, and animal 
drug assessments received during fiscal year 2007, including any such 
fees assessed prior to the current fiscal year but credited during the 
current year, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2007 limitation: 
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used to develop, 
establish, or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
9701: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated: (1) 
$457,936,000 shall be for the Center for Food Safety and Applied 
Nutrition and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (2) $544,961,000 shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation 
and Research and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs, of which no less than $39,079,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Generic Drugs; (3) $210,000,000 shall be for the Center for 
Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $105,031,000 shall be for the 
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the 
Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $255,480,000 shall be for the Center 
for Devices and Radiological Health and for related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $41,273,000 shall be for the 
National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) $62,007,000 shall be 
for Rent and Related activities, of which $25,552,000 is for White Oak 
Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General Services 
Administration for rent; (8) $146,013,000 shall be for payments to the 
General Services Administration for rent; and (9) $118,945,000 shall be 
for other activities, including the Office of the Commissioner; the 
Office of Management; the Office of External Relations; the Office of 
Policy and Planning; and central services for these offices: Provided 
further, That funds may be transferred from one specified activity to 
another with the prior notification of the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b may 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended.
    In addition, export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
381 may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$4,950,000, to remain available until expended.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $99,502,000, 
including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Not to exceed $44,250,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 292 passenger motor vehicles, of which 290 shall 
be for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. New obligational authority provided for the following 
appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until expended: 
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the contingency fund to 
meet emergency conditions, information technology infrastructure, fruit 
fly program and rearing facility design, emerging plant pests, boll 
weevil program, low pathogenic avian influenza program, highly 
pathogenic avian influenza program, up to $33,107,000 in animal health 
monitoring and surveillance for the animal identification system, up to 
$1,500,000 in the scrapie program for indemnities, up to $3,970,000 in 
the emergency management systems program for the vaccine bank, up to 
$1,000,000 for wildlife services methods development, up to $1,000,000 
of the wildlife services operations program for aviation safety, and up 
to 25 percent of the screwworm program; Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, field automation and information management project; 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, funds for 
competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), and funds for the 
Native American Institutions Endowment Fund; Farm Service Agency, 
salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; 
Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training program, 
and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural Service appropriation 
solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations in international 
currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by the Foreign 
Agricultural Service.
    Sec. 703. The Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated 
balances of discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or other 
available unobligated discretionary balances of the Department of 
Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of plant 
and capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services of primary benefit 
to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture: Provided, That none 
of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator: Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without the prior notification of the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 704. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 705. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 706. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against competitive agricultural research, 
education, or extension grant awards issued by the Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service that exceed 20 percent of 
total Federal funds provided under each award: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 1462 of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds 
provided by this Act for grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service shall be 
available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant awarded 
under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 707. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 708. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,800,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 709. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
carry out section 410 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 
679a) or section 30 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 
471).
    Sec. 710. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture or the Food and Drug 
Administration shall be used to transmit or otherwise make available to 
any non-Department of Agriculture or non-Department of Health and Human 
Services employee questions or responses to questions that are a result 
of information requested for the appropriations hearing process.
    Sec. 712. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer unless prior notification has been 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects over $25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by the 
Chief Information Officer.
    Sec. 713. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees; unless the Committees 
        on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 
        days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding 
for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel 
by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
unless the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress before implementing a program or activity not carried out 
during the previous fiscal year unless the program or activity is 
funded by this Act or specifically funded by any other Act.
    Sec. 714. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service shall provide financial and technical 
assistance--
            (1) through the Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations 
        program for--
                    (A) the Matanuska River erosion control project in 
                Alaska;
                    (B) the Little Red River irrigation project in 
                Arkansas;
                    (C) the Manoa Watershed project in Hawaii;
                    (D) the West Tarkio project in Iowa;
                    (E) the West Branch DuPage River Watershed project 
                in DuPage County, Illinois; and
                    (F) the Coal Creek project in Utah;
            (2) through the Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations 
        program to carry out the East Locust Creek Watershed Plan 
        Revision in Missouri, including up to 100 percent of the 
        engineering assistance and 75 percent cost share for 
        construction cost of site RW1; and
            (3) through the Watershed Flood Prevention Operations 
        program to carry out the Little Otter Creek Watershed project. 
        The sponsoring local organization may obtain land rights by 
        perpetual easements.
    Sec. 715. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate, or to 
plan to close or relocate, the Food and Drug Administration Division of 
Pharmaceutical Analysis in St. Louis, Missouri, outside the city or 
county limits of St. Louis, Missouri.
    Sec. 716. In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated or made 
available by this Act, $2,500,000 is appropriated for the purpose of 
providing Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland Hunger Fellowships, through 
the Congressional Hunger Center.
    Sec. 717. There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 for a grant to 
the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center, to remain available 
until expended.
    Sec. 718. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
made available in this Act for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)), the Secretary may use up to 30 percent of the amount provided 
to carry out a competitive grants program under the same terms and 
conditions as those provided in section 401 of the Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621).
    Sec. 719. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out section 14(h)(1) of the Watershed Protection and 
Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1012(h)(1)).
    Sec. 720. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to expend the $3,000,000 made available by 
section 9006(f) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 8106(f)).
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out an environmental quality 
incentives program authorized by chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII 
of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa et seq.) in excess 
of $1,031,000,000.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out section 601(j)(1) of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950bb(j)(1)).
    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available in fiscal year 2007 or 
preceding fiscal years for programs authorized under the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.) in 
excess of $20,000,000 shall be used to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for the release of eligible commodities under section 
302(f)(2)(A) of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act (7 U.S.C. 
1736f-1): Provided, That any such funds made available to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation shall only be used pursuant to section 
302(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out section 6401(a) of Public Law 
107-171, in excess of $28,000,000.
    Sec. 725. Notwithstanding subsections (c) and (e)(2) of section 
313A of the Rural Electrification Act (7 U.S.C. 940c(c) and (e)(2)) in 
implementing section 313A of that Act, the Secretary shall, with the 
consent of the lender, structure the schedule for payment of the annual 
fee, not to exceed an average of 30 basis points per year for the term 
of the loan, to ensure that sufficient funds are available to pay the 
subsidy costs for note guarantees under that section.
    Sec. 726. There is hereby appropriated $750,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the Denali Commission to address 
deficiencies in solid waste disposal sites which threaten to 
contaminate rural drinking water supplies.
    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out section 2502 of Public Law 107-
171 in excess of $63,000,000.
    Sec. 728. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out section 2503 of Public Law 107-
171 in excess of $58,000,000.
    Sec. 729. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a ground and surface water 
conservation program authorized by section 2301 of Public Law 107-171 
in excess of $54,000,000.
    Sec. 730. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to issue a final rule in furtherance of, or otherwise implement, the 
proposed rule on cost-sharing for animal and plant health emergency 
programs of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service published on 
July 8, 2003 (Docket No. 02-062-1; 68 Fed. Reg. 40541).
    Sec. 731. Funds made available under section 1240I and section 
1241(a) of the Food Security Act of 1985 in the current fiscal year 
shall remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in 
the current fiscal year, and are not available for new obligations. 
Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act, 7 U.S.C. 1524(b), in fiscal years 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007 shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in fiscal 
years 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively, and are not available 
for new obligations.
    Sec. 732. Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            (1) the City of Palmer, Alaska shall be eligible to receive 
        a water and waste disposal grant under section 306(a) of the 
        Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)) 
        in an amount that is equal to not more than 75 percent of the 
        total cost of providing water and sewer service to the proposed 
        hospital in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough, Alaska;
            (2) or any percentage of cost limitation in current law or 
        regulations, the construction projects known as the Tri-Valley 
        Community Center addition in Healy, Alaska; the Cold Climate 
        Housing Research Center in Fairbanks, Alaska; and the 
        University of Alaska-Fairbanks Allied Health Learning Center 
        skill labs/classrooms shall be eligible to receive Community 
        Facilities grants in amounts that are equal to not more than 75 
        percent of the total facility costs: Provided, That for the 
        purposes of this paragraph, the Cold Climate Housing Research 
        Center is designated an ``essential community facility'' for 
        rural Alaska;
            (3) for any fiscal year and hereafter, in the case of a 
        high cost isolated rural area in Alaska that is not connected 
        to a road system, the maximum level for the single family 
        housing assistance shall be 150 percent of the median household 
        income level in the nonmetropolitan areas of the State and 115 
        percent of all other eligible areas of the State; and
            (4) any former RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an 
        insured, direct or guaranteed loan under the Rural 
        Electrification Act, or any not-for-profit utility that is 
        eligible to receive an insured or direct loan under such Act, 
        shall be eligible for assistance under Section 313(b)(2)(B) of 
        such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such Act.
    Sec. 733. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Agriculture is authorized to make funding and other assistance 
available through the emergency watershed protection program under 
section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2203) to 
repair and prevent damage to non-Federal land in watersheds that have 
been impaired by fires initiated by the Federal Government and shall 
waive cost sharing requirements for the funding and assistance.
    Sec. 734. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
salaries and expenses to draft or implement any regulation or rule 
insofar as it would require recertification of rural status for each 
electric and telecommunications borrower for the Rural Electrification 
and Telecommunication Loans program.
    Sec. 735. The Secretary of Agriculture may use any unobligated 
carryover funds made available for any program administered by the 
Rural Utilities Service (not including funds made available under the 
heading ``Rural Community Advancement Program'' in any Act of 
appropriation) to carry out section 315 of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 940e).
    Sec. 736. In addition to other amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act, there is hereby appropriated to the 
Secretary of Agriculture $10,000,000, of which not to exceed 5 percent 
may be available for administrative expenses, to remain available until 
expended, to make specialty crop block grants under section 101 of the 
Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-465; 7 
U.S.C. 1621 note).
    Sec. 737. The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized and directed 
to quitclaim to the City of Elkhart, Kansas, all rights, title and 
interests of the United States in that tract of land comprising 151.7 
acres, more or less, located in Morton County, Kansas, and more 
specifically described in a deed dated March 11, 1958, from the United 
States of America to the City of Elkhart, State of Kansas, and filed of 
record April 4, 1958 at Book 34 at Page 520 in the office of the 
Register of Deeds of Morton County, Kansas as necessary, to provide for 
additional uses of said land for any public purpose.
    Sec. 738. (a) Section 18(f)(1) of the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(f)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``2004'' and inserting 
        ``2006''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in the matter before clause (i), by striking 
                ``June 2005'' and inserting ``May 2006''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``75'' and 
                inserting ``78''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) take effect on January 1, 
2007.
    Sec. 739. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to study, complete a study of, or enter into a contract with a private 
party to carry out, without specific authorization in a subsequent Act 
of Congress, a competitive sourcing activity of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, including support personnel of the Department of 
Agriculture, relating to rural development or farm loan programs.
    Sec. 740. Of the unobligated balances under section 32 of the Act 
of August 24, 1935, $9,900,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 741. None of the funds made available under this Act shall be 
available to pay the administrative expenses of a State agency that, 
after the date of enactment of this Act and prior to receiving 
certification in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 
17(h)(11)(E) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, authorizes any new 
for-profit vendor(s) to transact food instruments under the Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) 
if it is expected that more than 50 percent of the annual revenue of 
the vendor from the sale of food items will be derived from the sale of 
supplemental foods that are obtained with WIC food instruments, except 
that the Secretary may approve the authorization of such a vendor if 
the approval is necessary to assure participant access to program 
benefits.
    Sec. 742. (a) Subject to subsection (b), none of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to--
            (1) grant a waiver of a financial conflict of interest 
        requirement pursuant to section 505(n)(4) of the Federal Food, 
        Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(n)(4)) for any voting 
        member of an advisory committee or panel of the Food and Drug 
        Administration; or
            (2) make a certification under section 208(b)(3) of title 
        18, United States Code, for any such voting member.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a waiver or certification 
if--
            (1)(A) not later than 15 days prior to a meeting of an 
        advisory committee or panel to which such waiver or 
        certification applies, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services discloses on the Internet website of the Food and Drug 
        Administration--
                    (i) the nature of the conflict of interest at 
                issue; and
                    (ii) the nature and basis of such waiver or 
                certification (other than information exempted from 
                disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States 
                Code); or
            (B) in the case of a conflict of interest that becomes 
        known to the Secretary less than 15 days prior to a meeting to 
        which such waiver or certification applies, the Secretary shall 
        make such public disclosure as soon as possible thereafter, but 
        in no event later than the date of such meeting; and
            (2)(A) not later than 15 days prior to a meeting of an 
        advisory committee or panel, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services discloses on the Internet website of the Food and Drug 
        Administration--
                    (i) any recusal due to the potential for conflict 
                of interest, and
                    (ii) the nature of the conflict of interest at 
                issue
        (other than information exempted from disclosure under section 
        552 of title 5, United States Code); or
            (B) in the case of a recusal that becomes known to the 
        Secretary less than 15 days prior to a meeting to which such 
        recusal applies, the Secretary shall make such public 
        disclosure as soon as possible thereafter, but in no event 
        later than the date of such meeting.
    (c) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
make a new appointment to an advisory committee or panel of the Food 
and Drug Administration unless the Commissioner of Food and Drugs 
submits a semi-annual report to the Inspector General of the Department 
of Health and Human Services and the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate, the Energy and Commerce Committee of the House, 
and the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee of the Senate 
on the efforts made to identify qualified persons for such appointments 
with minimal or no potential conflicts of interest.
    Such report must include a description (that identifies no 
individual by name or affiliation), by advisory committee or panel, of 
the types of experts sought, the number of candidates considered, the 
number of those candidates willing to serve, the number of those 
willing to serve who have no or low involvement as specified in the FDA 
Waiver Criteria 2000 document, the number of new appointees that have 
no or low involvement as specified in the FDA Waiver Criteria 2000 
document, the number of vacancies remaining, the number of meetings and 
waivers granted by type of meeting, and, when an individual who has a 
medium or high involvement as specified in the FDA Waiver Criteria 2000 
document is appointed, the rationale for such appointment.
    Sec. 743. Section 514(f)(3) of the Housing Act of 1949 is amended 
by inserting ``or the processing of such commodities'' after 
``unprocessed stage''.
    Sec. 744. Starting in fiscal year 2006, the Secretary shall 
administer the Farm and Ranchland Protection Program exclusively in 
accordance with 7 CFR Part 1491 as published on May 16, 2003.
    Sec. 745. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and until 
the receipt of the decennial Census in the year 2010, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall consider--
            (1) the City of Lake City, Florida and the City of Parsons, 
        Kansas rural areas for purposes of eligibility for Rural 
        Utilities Service water and waste water loans and grants;
            (2) the City of Lansing, Kansas a rural area for purposes 
        of eligibility for Rural Housing Service programs, and the City 
        of Leavenworth, Kansas and the City of Lansing, Kansas as 
        separate geographic entities for purposes of Rural Development 
        grants and loans;
            (3) the City of Vineland, New Jersey and the City of 
        Millville, New Jersey, and urbanized areas contiguous and 
        adjacent to both cities, (including individuals and entities 
        with projects within these cities and areas) as eligible for 
        all Rural Business Program loans and grants except rural 
        development (intermediary relending) loans authorized by 
        section 1323 of the Food Security Act of 1985 and rural 
        economic development loans and grants authorized by section 313 
        of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 
        940C);
            (4) the City of Celina, Ohio and the City of Ashtabula, 
        Ohio as eligible for the purposes of Rural Development grants 
        and loans;
            (5) the Gooseberry Lake Project in the State of Iowa as 
        eligible for the Rural Utilities Service water and wastewater 
        loans and grant program including the purchase of land and 
        moving of utilities; and
            (6) the Cities of Alamo, Mercedes, Weslaco, and Donna in 
        the State of Texas as eligible for the purposes of Rural 
        Development grants and loans.
    Sec. 746. Of the appropriations available for payments for the 
nutrition and family education program for low-income areas under 
section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(d)), if the payment 
allocation pursuant to section 1425(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)) 
would be less than $100,000 for any institution eligible under section 
3(d)(2) of the Smith-Lever Act, the Secretary shall adjust payment 
allocations under section 1425(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to ensure that 
each institution receives a payment of not less than $100,000.
    Sec. 747. There is hereby appropriated $4,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for a grant to the National Center for 
Natural Products Research for construction or renovation to carry out 
the research objectives of the natural products research grant issued 
by the Food and Drug Administration.
    Sec. 748. None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
shall be used to transfer funds or assess charges or fees in excess of 
5 percent from any program, project, or activity funded under the 
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
    Sec. 749. There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 to continue 
section 791 of Public Law 109-97.
    Sec. 750. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the service 
areas being acquired by Mid-Kansas Electric Cooperative shall be 
considered eligible for financing under the provisions of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended.
    Sec. 751. Section 759 of Public Law 106-78 (7 U.S.C. 3242) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``2006'' and 
        inserting ``2011''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``2006'' and 
        inserting ``2011''.
    Sec. 752. The Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5601 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 202 (7 U.S.C. 5622)--
                    (A) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (d) through (l) as 
                subsections (b) through (j), respectively;
                    (C) in subsection (b) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B))--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and'' 
                        after ``exports;'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking 
                        ``commodities; and'' and inserting 
                        ``commodities.''; and
                            (iii) by striking paragraph (4);
                    (D) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B))--
                            (i) by striking ``(1) In general.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (E) in subsection (g)(2) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``subsections (a) and 
                (b)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
            (2) in section 211(b) (7 U.S.C. 5641(b))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``(1) Export credit 
                        guarantees.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsections (a) and 
                        (b)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2).
    Sec. 753. Section 343 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and, in the case of 
        subtitle B, commercial fishing'' before the period at the end 
        of each of paragraphs (1) and (2); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Definition of Farm.--In subtitle B, the term `farm' includes 
a commercial fishing enterprise.''.
    Sec. 754. (a) Section 1307(a)(6) of the Farm Security and Rural 
Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7957(a)(6)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``2006'' and 
        inserting ``2007''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``2007'' and 
        inserting ``2008''.
    (b) The authority provided by section 1307(a)(6) of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7957(a)(6)), as 
amended by subsection (a), shall terminate beginning with the 2008 crop 
of peanuts, and shall be considered to have terminated notwithstanding 
section 257 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 (2 U.S.C. 907).
    Sec. 755. Travel Relating to Commercial Sales of Agricultural and 
Medical Goods. Section 910(a) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export 
Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7209(a)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) Authorization of Travel Relating to Commercial Sales of 
Agricultural and Medical Goods.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
promulgate regulations under which the travel-related transactions 
listed in paragraph (c) of section 515.560 of title 31, Code of Federal 
Regulations, are authorized by general license for travel to, from, or 
within Cuba for the purpose of conferring, exhibiting, marketing, 
planning, sales negotiation, delivery, expediting, facilitating, or 
servicing commercial export sale of agricultural and medical goods 
pursuant to the provisions of this title.''.
    Sec. 756. Additional Amounts for Veterans. For an additional amount 
for ``General Operating Expenses'' for necessary expenses to respond to 
the data theft at the Department of Veterans Affairs and to provide 
remedial assistance to veterans who have had personal data stolen from 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, $160,000,000: Provided, That the 
amount provided in this section is designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 402 of S. Con. Res. 83 (109th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2007, as made applicable in the Senate by section 7035 of Public Law 
109-234.
    Sec. 757. (a) The Senate finds that--
            (1) the United States cattle industry produces abundant, 
        safe, and healthful food for consumers in the United States and 
        around the world;
            (2) Japan prohibited imports of beef from the United States 
        during the period beginning December 2003 and ending December 
        2005, after a single case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy 
        (BSE, or ``mad cow disease'') was found in a Canadian-born 
        animal in Washington State;
            (3) the United States has implemented and maintained a BSE 
        surveillance and safeguard program that exceeds the 
        internationally recognized standards of the World Organization 
        for Animal Health (OIE) for BSE control, eradication, and 
        testing to protect human and animal health;
            (4) the United States and the Government of Japan concluded 
        an agreement on December 12, 2005, that established the 
        conditions under which beef exports to Japan could resume;
            (5) as a result of errors by a single United States 
        exporter certified to sell beef to Japan and inadequate 
        oversight by the Department of Agriculture, a single shipment 
        of United States beef was found to be noncompliant with the 
        terms of the agreement resulting in a suspension of all United 
        States beef exports to Japan;
            (6) the United States has taken substantive corrective 
        actions to ensure that United States beef exports to Japan are 
        in full compliance with the terms of the agreement, fully 
        disclosed the actions taken to the Government of Japan, and 
        allowed Japanese officials the opportunity to review those 
        actions and personally inspect and determine the eligibility of 
        all United States beef processing plants certified for the 
        export of beef to Japan;
            (7) notwithstanding the membership of Japan in the OIE and 
        the commitment of Japan under the Agreement on the Application 
        of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures of the World Trade 
        Organization to apply sanitary and phytosanitary measures only 
        to the extent necessary to protect human, animal, and plant 
        health, based on scientific principles, Japan continues to 
        maintain an unjustified suspension of imports of United States 
        beef; and
            (8) the continued violation by Japan of the spirit and 
        letter of the World Trade Organization commitments of Japan has 
        resulted in the cumulative economic loss to the United States 
        beef industry of approximately $6,300,000,000 and current 
        annual economic trade losses of $3,140,000,000 per year.
    (b) It is the sense of the Senate that if, by the date of enactment 
of this Act, Japan does not permit the importation of beef from the 
United States, additional tariffs on selected articles that are grown 
by, the products of, or manufactured by Japan and that enter the 
customs territory of the United States should be imposed until Japan 
permits the importation of beef from the United States.

         TITLE VIII--EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Emergency Farm Relief Act of 
2006''.

SEC. 802. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Additional coverage.--The term ``additional coverage'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 502(b)(1) of the 
        Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)).
            (2) Disaster county.--The term ``disaster county'' means--
                    (A) a county included in the geographic area 
                covered by a natural disaster declaration; and
                    (B) each county contiguous to a county described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (3) Hurricane-affected county.--The term ``hurricane-
        affected county'' means--
                    (A) a county included in the geographic area 
                covered by a natural disaster declaration related to 
                Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Wilma, or 
                a related condition; and
                    (B) each county contiguous to a county described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (4) Insurable commodity.--The term ``insurable commodity'' 
        means an agricultural commodity (excluding livestock) for which 
        the producers on a farm are eligible to obtain a policy or plan 
        of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
        1501 et seq.).
            (5) Livestock.--The term ``livestock'' includes--
                    (A) cattle (including dairy cattle);
                    (B) bison;
                    (C) sheep;
                    (D) swine; and
                    (E) other livestock, as determined by the 
                Secretary.
            (6) Natural disaster declaration.--The term ``natural 
        disaster declaration'' means--
                    (A) a natural disaster declared by the Secretary--
                            (i) during calendar year 2005 under section 
                        321(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
                        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961(a)); or
                            (ii) during calendar year 2006 under that 
                        section, but for which a request was pending as 
                        of the date of enactment of this Act; or
                    (B) a major disaster or emergency designated by the 
                President--
                            (i) during calendar year 2005 under the 
                        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
                        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
                        seq.); or
                            (ii) during calendar year 2006 under that 
                        Act, but for which a request was pending as of 
                        the date of enactment of this Act.
            (7) Noninsurable commodity.--The term ``noninsurable 
        commodity'' means a crop for which the producers on a farm are 
        eligible to obtain assistance under section 196 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

               Subtitle A--Agricultural Production Losses

SEC. 811. CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall use such sums as are necessary 
of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make emergency 
financial assistance authorized under this section available to 
producers on a farm that have incurred qualifying losses described in 
subsection (c).
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), the Secretary shall make assistance available under this 
        section in the same manner as provided under section 815 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration 
        and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-
        387; 114 Stat. 1549A-55), including using the same loss 
        thresholds for quantity and economic losses as were used in 
        administering that section, except that the payment rate shall 
        be 50 percent of the established price, instead of 65 percent.
            (2) Noninsured producers.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (3), for producers on a farm that were eligible to acquire crop 
        insurance for the applicable production loss and failed to do 
        so or failed to submit an application for the noninsured 
        assistance program for the loss, the Secretary shall make 
        assistance in accordance with paragraph (1), except that the 
        payment rate shall be 35 percent of the established price, 
        instead of 50 percent.
            (3) Loss thresholds for quality losses.--In the case of a 
        payment for quality loss for a crop under subsection (c)(2), 
        the loss thresholds for quality loss for the crop shall be 
        determined under subsection (d).
    (c) Qualifying Losses.--Assistance under this section shall be made 
available to producers on farms, other than producers of sugar cane and 
sugar beets, that incurred qualifying quantity or quality losses for--
            (1) the 2005 crop due to damaging weather or any related 
        condition (including losses due to crop diseases, insects, and 
        delayed harvest), as determined by the Secretary; and
            (2) the 2006 crop due to flooding in California, Hawaii, 
        and Vermont that occurred prior to the date of enactment of 
        this Act and for which a petition for a disaster designation 
        has been filed with the Secretary not later than that date.
    (d) Quality Losses.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), the amount of a 
        payment made to producers on a farm for a quality loss for a 
        crop under subsection (c)(2) shall be equal to the amount 
        obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) 65 percent of the payment quantity determined 
                under paragraph (2); by
                    (B) 50 percent of the payment rate determined under 
                paragraph (3).
            (2) Payment quantity.--For the purpose of paragraph (1)(A), 
        the payment quantity for quality losses for a crop of a 
        commodity on a farm shall equal the lesser of--
                    (A) the actual production of the crop affected by a 
                quality loss of the commodity on the farm; or
                    (B) the quantity of expected production of the crop 
                affected by a quality loss of the commodity on the 
                farm, using the formula used by the Secretary to 
                determine quantity losses for the crop of the commodity 
                under subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Payment rate.--For the purpose of paragraph (1)(B) and 
        in accordance with paragraphs (5) and (6), the payment rate for 
        quality losses for a crop of a commodity on a farm shall be 
        equal to the difference between--
                    (A) the per unit market value that the units of the 
                crop affected by the quality loss would have had if the 
                crop had not suffered a quality loss; and
                    (B) the per unit market value of the units of the 
                crop affected by the quality loss.
            (4) Eligibility.--For producers on a farm to be eligible to 
        obtain a payment for a quality loss for a crop under subsection 
        (c)(2), the amount obtained by multiplying the per unit loss 
        determined under paragraph (1) by the number of units affected 
        by the quality loss shall be at least 25 percent of the value 
        that all affected production of the crop would have had if the 
        crop had not suffered a quality loss.
            (5) Marketing contracts.--In the case of any production of 
        a commodity that is sold pursuant to 1 or more marketing 
        contracts (regardless of whether the contract is entered into 
        by the producers on the farm before or after harvest) and for 
        which appropriate documentation exists, the quantity designated 
        in the contracts shall be eligible for quality loss assistance 
        based on the 1 or more prices specified in the contracts.
            (6) Other production.--For any additional production of a 
        commodity for which a marketing contract does not exist or for 
        which production continues to be owned by the producer, quality 
        losses shall be based on the average local market discounts for 
        reduced quality, as determined by the appropriate State 
        committee of the Farm Service Agency.
            (7) Quality adjustments and discounts.--The appropriate 
        State committee of the Farm Service Agency shall identify the 
        appropriate quality adjustment and discount factors to be 
        considered in carrying out this subsection, including--
                    (A) the average local discounts actually applied to 
                a crop; and
                    (B) the discount schedules applied to loans made by 
                the Farm Service Agency or crop insurance coverage 
                under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et 
                seq.).
            (8) Eligible production.--The Secretary shall carry out 
        this subsection in a fair and equitable manner for all eligible 
        production, including the production of fruits and vegetables, 
        other specialty crops, and field crops.
    (e) Timing.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall make payments to producers on a farm for a crop under 
        this section not later than 60 days after the date the 
        producers on the farm submit to the Secretary a completed 
        application for the payments.
            (2) Interest.--If the Secretary does not make payments to 
        the producers on a farm by the date described in paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall pay to the producers on a farm interest on 
        the payments at a rate equal to the current (as of the sign-up 
        deadline established by the Secretary) market yield on 
        outstanding, marketable obligations of the United States with 
        maturities of 30 years.

SEC. 812. LIVESTOCK ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Livestock Compensation Program.--
            (1) Use of commodity credit corporation funds.--Effective 
        beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall use funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry 
        out the 2002 Livestock Compensation Program announced by the 
        Secretary on October 10, 2002 (67 Fed. Reg. 63070), to provide 
        compensation for livestock losses during calendar years 2005 
        and 2006 for losses that occurred prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act (including wildfire disaster losses in 
        the State of Texas and other States) due to a disaster, as 
        determined by the Secretary, except that the payment rate shall 
        be 75 percent of the payment rate established for the 2002 
        Livestock Compensation Program.
            (2) Eligible applicants.--In carrying out the program 
        described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide 
        assistance to any applicant that--
                    (A)(i) conducts a livestock operation that is 
                located in a disaster county, including any applicant 
                conducting a livestock operation with eligible 
                livestock (within the meaning of the livestock 
                assistance program under section 101(b) of division B 
                of Public Law 108-324 (118 Stat. 1234)); or
                    (ii) produces an animal described in section 
                10806(a)(1) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
                Act of 2002 (21 U.S.C. 321d(a)(1)); and
                    (B) meets all other eligibility requirements 
                established by the Secretary for the program.
            (3) Mitigation.--In determining the eligibility for or 
        amount of payments for which a producer is eligible under the 
        livestock compensation program, the Secretary shall not 
        penalize a producer that takes actions (recognizing disaster 
        conditions) that reduce the average number of livestock the 
        producer owned for grazing during the production year for which 
        assistance is being provided.
    (b) Livestock Indemnity Payments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use such sums as are 
        necessary of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make 
        livestock indemnity payments to producers on farms that have 
        incurred livestock losses during calendar years 2005 and 2006 
        for losses that occurred prior to the date of enactment of this 
        Act (including wildfire disaster losses in the State of Texas 
        and other States) due to a disaster, as determined by the 
        Secretary, including losses due to hurricanes, floods, anthrax, 
        and wildfires.
            (2) Payment rates.--Indemnity payments to a producer on a 
        farm under paragraph (1) shall be made at a rate of not less 
        than 30 percent of the market value of the applicable livestock 
        on the day before the date of death of the livestock, as 
        determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use $13,000,000 of 
        funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make payments 
        under the Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Payment Program 
        under part 784 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
        successor regulation) for each qualifying ewe lamb retained or 
        purchased during the period beginning on January 1, 2006, and 
        ending on December 31, 2006.
            (2) Ineligibility for other assistance.--A producer that 
        receives assistance under this subsection shall not be eligible 
        to receive assistance under subsection (a).

SEC. 813. FLOODED CROP AND GRAZING LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall compensate eligible owners of 
flooded crop and grazing land in--
            (1) the Devils Lake basin; and
            (2) the McHugh, Lake Laretta, and Rose Lake closed drainage 
        areas of the State of North Dakota.
    (b) Eligibility.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive compensation 
        under this section, an owner shall own land described in 
        subsection (a) that, during the 2 crop years preceding receipt 
        of compensation, was rendered incapable of use for the 
        production of an agricultural commodity or for grazing purposes 
        (in a manner consistent with the historical use of the land) as 
        the result of flooding, as determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Inclusions.--Land described in paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) land that has been flooded;
                    (B) land that has been rendered inaccessible due to 
                flooding; and
                    (C) a reasonable buffer strip adjoining the flooded 
                land, as determined by the Secretary.
            (3) Administration.--The Secretary may establish--
                    (A) reasonable minimum acreage levels for 
                individual parcels of land for which owners may receive 
                compensation under this section; and
                    (B) the location and area of adjoining flooded land 
                for which owners may receive compensation under this 
                section.
    (c) Sign-up.--The Secretary shall establish a sign-up program for 
eligible owners to apply for compensation from the Secretary under this 
section.
    (d) Compensation Payments.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        rate of an annual compensation payment under this section shall 
        be equal to 90 percent of the average annual per acre rental 
        payment rate (at the time of entry into the contract) for 
        comparable crop or grazing land that has not been flooded and 
        remains in production in the county where the flooded land is 
        located, as determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Reduction.--An annual compensation payment under this 
        section shall be reduced by the amount of any conservation 
        program rental payments or Federal agricultural commodity 
        program payments received by the owner for the land during any 
        crop year for which compensation is received under this 
        section.
            (3) Exclusion.--During any year in which an owner receives 
        compensation for flooded land under this section, the owner 
        shall not be eligible to participate in or receive benefits for 
        the flooded land under--
                    (A) the Federal crop insurance program established 
                under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et 
                seq.);
                    (B) the noninsured crop assistance program 
                established under section 196 of the Federal 
                Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 
                U.S.C. 7333); or
                    (C) any Federal agricultural crop disaster 
                assistance program.
    (e) Relationship to Agricultural Commodity Programs.--The 
Secretary, by regulation, shall provide for the preservation of 
cropland base, allotment history, and payment yields applicable to land 
described in subsection (a) that was rendered incapable of use for the 
production of an agricultural commodity or for grazing purposes as the 
result of flooding.
    (f) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--An owner that receives compensation under 
        this section for flooded land shall take such actions as are 
        necessary to not degrade any wildlife habitat on the land that 
        has naturally developed as a result of the flooding.
            (2) Recreational activities.--To encourage owners that 
        receive compensation for flooded land to allow public access to 
        and use of the land for recreational activities, as determined 
        by the Secretary, the Secretary may--
                    (A) offer an eligible owner additional 
                compensation; and
                    (B) provide compensation for additional acreage 
                under this section.
    (g) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use $6,000,000 of 
        funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this 
        section.
            (2) Pro-rated payments.--In a case in which the amount made 
        available under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year is insufficient 
        to compensate all eligible owners under this section, the 
        Secretary shall pro-rate payments for that fiscal year on a per 
        acre basis.

SEC. 814. SUGAR BEET DISASTER ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall use $24,000,000 of funds of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance to sugar beet 
producers that suffered production losses (including quality losses) 
for the 2005 crop year.
    (b) Requirement.--The Secretary shall make payments under 
subsection (a) in the same manner as payments were made under section 
208 of the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-7; 117 
Stat. 544), including using the same indemnity benefits as were used in 
carrying out that section.
    (c) Hawaii.--The Secretary shall use $6,000,000 of funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to assist sugarcane growers in Hawaii by 
making a payment in that amount to an agricultural transportation 
cooperative in Hawaii, the members of which are eligible to obtain a 
loan under section 156(a) of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7272(a)).

SEC. 815. BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS HERD INDEMNIFICATION.

    The Secretary shall use $2,000,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to indemnify producers that suffered losses to herds of 
cattle due to bovine tuberculosis during calendar year 2005.

SEC. 816. REDUCTION IN PAYMENTS.

    The amount of any payment for which a producer is eligible under 
this subtitle shall be reduced by any amount received by the producer 
for the same loss or any similar loss under--
            (1) the Department of Defense, Emergency Supplemental 
        Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, and 
        Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-148; 119 Stat. 
        2680);
            (2) an agricultural disaster assistance provision contained 
        in the announcement of the Secretary on January 26, 2006; or
            (3) the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 
        Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 
        (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 418).

 Subtitle B--Supplemental Nutrition and Agricultural Economic Disaster 
                               Assistance

SEC. 821. REPLENISHMENT OF SECTION 32.

    (a) Definition of Specialty Crop.--In this section:
            (1) In general.--The term ``specialty crop'' means any 
        agricultural crop.
            (2) Exception.--The term ``specialty crop'' does not 
        include--
                    (A) wheat;
                    (B) feed grains;
                    (C) oilseeds;
                    (D) cotton;
                    (E) rice;
                    (F) peanuts; or
                    (G) milk.
    (b) Base State Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use $25,000,000 of 
        funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make grants to the 
        several States to be used to support activities that promote 
        agriculture.
            (2) Amounts.--The amount of the grants shall be $500,000 to 
        each of the several States.
    (c) Grants for Value of Production.--The Secretary shall use 
$74,500,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make a 
grant to each of the several States in an amount equal to the product 
obtained by multiplying--
            (1) the share of the State of the total value of specialty 
        crop and livestock of the United States for the 2004 crop year, 
        as determined by the Secretary; by
            (2) $74,500,000.
    (d) Special Crop and Livestock Priority.--As a condition on the 
receipt of a grant under this section, a State shall agree to give 
priority to the support of specialty crops and livestock in the use of 
the grant funds.
    (e) Use of Funds.--A State may use funds from a grant awarded under 
this section--
            (1) to supplement State food bank programs or other 
        nutrition assistance programs;
            (2) to promote the purchase, sale, or consumption of 
        agricultural products;
            (3) to provide economic assistance to agricultural 
        producers, giving a priority to the support of specialty crops 
        and livestock; or
            (4) for other purposes as determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 822. SUPPLEMENTAL ECONOMIC LOSS PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
make a supplemental economic loss payment to--
            (1) any producers on a farm that received a direct payment 
        for crop year 2005 under title I of the Farm Security and Rural 
        Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7901 et seq.); and
            (2) any dairy producer that was eligible to receive a 
        payment during the 2005 calendar year under section 1502 of the 
        Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7982).
    (b) Amount.--
            (1) Covered commodities.--Subject to paragraph (3), the 
        amount of a supplemental economic loss payment made to the 
        producers on a farm under subsection (a)(1) shall be equal to 
        the product obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) 30 percent of the direct payment rate in effect 
                for the covered commodity of the producers on the farm;
                    (B) 85 percent of the base acres of the covered 
                commodity of the producers on the farm; and
                    (C) the payment yield for each covered commodity of 
                the producers on the farm.
            (2) Dairy payments.--
                    (A) Distribution.--Supplemental economic loss 
                payments under subsection (a)(2) shall be distributed 
                in a manner that is consistent with section 1502 of the 
                Farm and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7982).
                    (B) Maximum amount.--Subject to paragraph (3), the 
                total amount available for supplemental economic loss 
                payments under subsection (a)(2) shall not exceed 
                $147,000,000.
            (3) Limitations.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary shall ensure that no person receives 
                supplemental economic loss payments under--
                            (i) subsection (a)(1) in excess of the per 
                        person limitations applicable to a person that 
                        receives payments described in subsection 
                        (a)(1); and
                            (ii) subsection (a)(2) in excess of the per 
                        dairy operation limitation applicable to 
                        producers on a dairy farm described in 
                        subsection (a)(2).
                    (B) Administration.--In carrying out subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary--
                            (i) shall establish separate limitations 
                        for supplemental economic loss payments 
                        received under this section; and
                            (ii) shall not include the supplemental 
                        economic loss payments in applying payment 
                        limitations under section 1001 of the Food 
                        Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1001) for 
                        payments made pursuant to the underlying normal 
                        operation of the program described in 
                        subsection (a)(1) or section 1502 of the Farm 
                        and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
                        7982).

SEC. 823. EMERGENCY WATERSHED PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall use an additional $53,600,000 of funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out emergency measures identified 
by the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service as of the 
date of enactment of this Act through the emergency watershed 
protection program established under section 403 of the Agricultural 
Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2203).

                        Subtitle C--Conservation

SEC. 831. NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE.

    (a) Authority to Clear Debris and Animal Carcasses.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary, acting 
through the Natural Resources Conservation Service, using funds made 
available for the emergency watershed protection program established 
under section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
2203), may provide financial and technical assistance to remove and 
dispose of debris and animal carcasses that could adversely affect 
health and safety on non-Federal land in a hurricane-affected county.
    (b) Authority to Use Certain Practices.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary, acting through the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, may use direct check-writing practices and 
electronic transfers to provide financial and technical assistance 
under the emergency watershed protection program established under 
section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2203) in 
a hurricane-affected county.

SEC. 832. EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall use an additional $17,000,000 of funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out emergency measures identified 
by the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency as of the date of 
enactment of this Act through the emergency conservation program 
established under title IV of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 2201 et seq.).

                    Subtitle D--Farm Service Agency

SEC. 841. FUNDING FOR ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL.

    The Secretary shall use $13,400,000 of funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to hire additional County Farm Service Agency 
personnel--
            (1) to expedite the implementation of, and delivery under, 
        the agricultural disaster and economic assistance programs 
        under this title; and
            (2) as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry 
        out other agriculture and disaster assistance programs.

                       Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

SEC. 851. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE IMMUNIZATIONS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Defense may provide immunizations to employees of the Department of 
Agriculture involved in direct recovery work in a hurricane-affected 
county.

SEC. 852. WAIVER OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may 
provide assistance in a hurricane-affected county under the emergency 
conservation program established under title IV of the Agricultural 
Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) without regard to subtitle 
C of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3821 et 
seq.).

SEC. 853. FUNDING.

    The Secretary shall use the funds, facilities, and authorities of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this title, to remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 854. REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may promulgate such regulations as 
are necessary to implement this title.
    (b) Procedure.--The promulgation of the regulations and 
administration of this title shall be made without regard to--
            (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to 
        notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
        rulemaking; and
            (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').
    (c) Congressional Review of Agency Rulemaking.--In carrying out 
this section, the Secretary shall use the authority provided under 
section 808 of title 5, United States Code.

                   Subtitle F--Emergency Designation

SEC. 861. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.

    The amounts provided in this title are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 402 of S. Con. Res. 83 (109th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2007, as made applicable in the Senate by section 7035 of Public Law 
109-234.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2007''.
                                                       Calendar No. 477

109th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 5384

                          [Report No. 109-266]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 24, 2006

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 22, 2006

                       Reported with an amendment