[118th Congress Public Law 50]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 138 STAT. 895]]

Public Law 118-50
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2024, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 24, 
                          2024 -  [H.R. 815]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into the following divisions:
            (1) Division a.--Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2024.
            (2) Division b.--Ukraine Security Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2024.
            (3) Division c.--Indo-Pacific Security Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2024.
            (4) Division d.--21st Century Peace through Strength Act.
            (5) Division e.--FEND off Fentanyl Act.
            (6) Division f.--Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and 
        Opportunity for Ukrainians Act.
            (7) Division g.--Other Matters.
            (8) Division h.--Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary 
        Controlled Applications Act.
            (9) Division i.--Protecting Americans' Data from Foreign 
        Adversaries Act of 2024.
            (10) Division j.--SHIP Act.
            (11) Division k.--Fight CRIME Act.
            (12) Division l.--MAHSA Act.
            (13) Division m.--Hamas and Other Palestinian Terrorist 
        Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
            (14) Division n.--No Technology for Terror Act.
            (15) Division o.--Strengthening Tools to Counter the Use of 
        Human Shields Act.
            (16) Division p.--Illicit Captagon Trafficking Suppression 
        Act.
            (17) Division q.--End Financing for Hamas and State Sponsors 
        of Terrorism Act.
            (18) Division r.--Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act.
            (19) Division s.--Iran-China Energy Sanctions Act of 2023.
            (20) Division t.--Budgetary Effects.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

[[Page 138 STAT. 896]]

   DIVISION <<NOTE: Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2024.>> A--ISRAEL SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2024, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $4,400,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, to 
respond to the situation in Israel:  Provided, That the amount provided 
under this heading in this division may be transferred to accounts under 
the headings ``Operation and Maintenance'', ``Procurement'', and 
``Revolving and Management Funds'' for replacement, through new 
procurement or repair of existing unserviceable equipment, of defense 
articles from the stocks of the Department of Defense, and for 
reimbursement for defense services of the Department of Defense and 
military education and training, provided to the government of Israel or 
identified and notified to Congress for provision to the government of 
Israel or to foreign countries that have provided support to Israel at 
the request of the United States:  Provided further, That funds 
transferred pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which the funds are transferred:  Provided further, 
That the <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of the details of such 
transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>> upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back 
and merged with this appropriation:  Provided further, That any transfer 
authority provided herein is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$801,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Israel:  Provided, That such amount

[[Page 138 STAT. 897]]

is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$5,200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Israel and for related expenses:  Provided, That of 
the total amount provided under this heading in this division, 
$4,000,000,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the 
Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Dome and David's 
Sling defense systems to counter short-range rocket threats:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this heading in this 
division, $1,200,000,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to 
provide to the Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Beam 
defense system to counter short-range rocket threats:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Transfer authority.>>  funds in the preceding provisos 
shall be transferred pursuant to an exchange of letters and are in 
addition to funds provided pursuant to the U.S.-Israel Iron Dome 
Procurement Agreement, as amended:  Provided further, That nothing under 
this heading in this division shall be construed to apply to amounts 
made available in prior appropriations Acts for the procurement of the 
Iron Dome and David's Sling defense systems or for the procurement of 
the Iron Beam defense system:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Production Act Purchases'', 
$198,600,000, to remain available until expended, for activities by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the 
Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533):  
Provided, That such amounts shall be obligated and expended by the 
Secretary of Defense as if delegated the necessary authorities conferred 
by the Defense Production Act of 1950:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 101.  For an additional amount for the Department of Defense, 
$2,440,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for 
transfer to military personnel accounts, operation and maintenance 
accounts, procurement accounts, research, development, test and 
evaluation accounts, and the Defense Working Capital Funds, in addition 
to amounts otherwise made available for such purpose, only for U.S. 
operations, force protection, deterrence, and the replacement of combat 
expenditures in the United States Central Command region: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Time period. Execution plan.>> That none of the funds 
provided under this section may be obligated or expended until 30 days

[[Page 138 STAT. 898]]

after the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense 
committees an execution plan: Provided further, <<NOTE: Time 
period. Notification.>>  That not less than 15 days prior to any 
transfer of funds, the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of the details of any such transfer: 
Provided further, That upon transfer, the funds shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That any transfer 
authority provided herein is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                         operations and support

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--
Operations and Support'', $10,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2027, for necessary expenses related to the administration 
of nonprofit security grants:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                           federal assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--
Federal Assistance'', $390,000,000, of which $160,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025, and $230,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for Nonprofit Security Grant Program 
under section 2009 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609a) 
for eligible nonprofit organizations to prevent, prepare for, protect 
against, and respond to acts of terrorism or other threats:  Provided, 
That the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
make programmatic adjustments as necessary to expedite the disbursement 
of, and provide flexibility in the use of, amounts made available under 
this heading in this division:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any provision of 6 U.S.C. 609a, and in addition to amounts available 
under 6 U.S.C. 609a(c)(2), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency may permit a State to use up to two percent of a grant 
awarded under this heading in this division to provide outreach and 
technical assistance to eligible nonprofit organizations to assist them 
with applying for Nonprofit Security Grant Program awards under this 
heading in this division:  Provided further, That such outreach and 
technical assistance should prioritize rural and underserved communities 
and nonprofit organizations that are traditionally underrepresented in 
the Program:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the

[[Page 138 STAT. 899]]

Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                                TITLE III

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                           diplomatic programs

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic Programs'', $150,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025, to respond to the 
situation in Israel and areas and countries impacted by the situation in 
Israel:  Provided,  That of the total amount provided under this heading 
in this division, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for Worldwide Security Protection, including to respond to the 
situation in Israel and areas impacted by the situation in Israel:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service'', $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
meet unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular 
Service, as authorized:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 900]]

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$5,655,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address 
humanitarian needs, including the provision of emergency food and 
shelter, of vulnerable populations and communities:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$3,495,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address 
humanitarian needs of vulnerable populations and communities:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                           Department of State

           international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $75,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, for assistance for the Middle East, following consultation with 
the appropriate congressional committees, including to enhance law 
enforcement capabilities, counter terrorism, combat narcotics 
trafficking, and meet other critical partner requirements:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         peacekeeping operations

    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, including for 
a United States contribution to the Multinational Force and Observers 
mission in the Sinai to enhance force protection capabilities:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 901]]

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$3,500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
assistance for Israel and for related expenses:  Provided, That to the 
extent that the Government of Israel requests that funds be used for 
such purposes, grants made available for Israel under this heading in 
this division shall, as agreed by the United States and Israel, be 
available for advanced weapons systems, of which up to $769,300,000 may 
be available for the procurement in Israel of defense articles and 
defense services:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Consultation.>> the 
limitation in the preceding proviso may be exceeded, if agreed by the 
United States and Israel, following consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Determination.>> That any congressional notification 
requirement applicable to funds made available under this heading in 
this division for Israel may be waived if the Secretary of State 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States:  Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 of funds made 
available under this heading in this division, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, may be used by the Department of 
State for necessary expenses for the general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales, including management and oversight of 
such programs and activities:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301.  During fiscal year 2024, up to $250,000,000 of funds 
deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs account in any 
fiscal year that are available for obligation may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated by any Act making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the 
headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' (including for Worldwide Security 
Protection) and ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' 
for emergency evacuations or to prevent or respond to security 
situations and related requirements: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Consultation. Notification.>> such transfer authority is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided by law, and any such 
transfers are subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 302. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During fiscal year 2024, section 
506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318(a)(1)) 
shall be applied by substituting ``$7,800,000,000'' for 
``$100,000,000''.

    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During fiscal year 2024, section 
506(a)(2)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2318(a)(2)(B)) shall be applied by substituting ``$400,000,000'' for 
``$200,000,000'' in the matter preceding clause (i), and by substituting 
``$150,000,000'' for ``$75,000,000'' in clause (i).

    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   During fiscal year 2024, 
section 552(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2348a(c)(2)) shall be applied by substituting ``$50,000,000'' for 
``$25,000,000''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 902]]

    Sec. 305.  Section 12001 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287) <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 1011.>> is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In paragraph (2) of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``armor'' and all that follows through the end of the paragraph 
        and inserting ``defense articles that are in the inventory of 
        the Department of Defense as of the date of transfer, are 
        intended for use as reserve stocks for Israel, and are located 
        in a stockpile for Israel as of the date of transfer''.
            (2) In subsection (b), by striking ``at least equal to the 
        fair market value of the items transferred'' and inserting ``in 
        an amount to be determined by the Secretary of Defense''.
            (3) <<NOTE: Determination. President.>> In subsection (c), 
        by inserting before the comma in the first sentence the 
        following: ``, or as far in advance of such transfer as is 
        practicable as determined by the President on a case-by-case 
        basis during extraordinary circumstances impacting the national 
        security of the United States''.

    Sec. 306.  For fiscal year 2024, section 514(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)) shall not apply to defense 
articles to be set aside, earmarked, reserved, or intended for use as 
reserve stocks in stockpiles in the State of Israel.
    Sec. 307. (a) Funds appropriated by this division under the headings 
``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and Refugee 
Assistance'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated 
by this division under such headings.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this division under the headings 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this division 
under such headings.
    (c) <<NOTE: Consultation. Notification.>>  The transfer authorities 
provided by this section are in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law, and are subject to prior consultation with, and the 
regular notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

    (d) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon a determination that all or part 
of the funds transferred pursuant to the authorities provided by this 
section are not necessary for such purposes, such amounts may be 
transferred back to such appropriations.

    Sec. 308. 
    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
division and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs may be made available 
for a contribution, grant, or other payment to the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: Reports. Policies. Processes. Procedures.>> (a) 
Certification.--The Secretary of State shall certify and report to the 
appropriate congressional committees not later than fifteen days after 
the date of enactment of this division, that--

    (1) oversight policies, processes, and procedures have been 
established by the Department of State and the United States Agency for 
International Development, as appropriate, and are in use to prevent the 
diversion, misuse, or destruction of assistance, including through 
international organizations, to Hamas and other terrorist and extremist 
entities in Gaza; and
    (2) such policies, processes, and procedures have been developed in 
coordination with other bilateral and multilateral donors and the 
Government of Israel, as appropriate.

[[Page 138 STAT. 903]]

    (b) Oversight Policy and Procedures.--The Secretary of State and the 
USAID Administrator shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees, concurrent with the submission of the certification required 
in subsection (a), a written description of the oversight policies, 
processes, and procedures for funds appropriated by this title that are 
made available for assistance for Gaza, including specific actions to be 
taken should such assistance be diverted, misused, or destroyed, and the 
role of Israel in the oversight of such assistance.
    (c) Requirement to Inform.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator shall promptly inform the appropriate congressional 
committees of each instance in which funds appropriated by this title 
that are made available for assistance for Gaza have been diverted, 
misused, or destroyed, to include the type of assistance, a description 
of the incident and parties involved, and an explanation of the response 
of the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate.
    (d) <<NOTE: Consultation.>> Third Party Monitoring.--Funds 
appropriated by this title shall be made available for third party 
monitoring of assistance for Gaza, including end use monitoring, 
following consultation with the appropriate congressional committees.

    (e) Offices of Inspectors General.--
    (1) Department of State.--Of the funds appropriated by this title 
under the heading ``Office of Inspector General'' for the Department of 
State, $4,000,000 shall be made available for the oversight and 
monitoring of assistance made available for Gaza by this title and in 
prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs.
    (2) United States Agency For International Development.--Of the 
funds appropriated by this title under the heading ``Office of Inspector 
General'' for USAID, $3,000,000 shall be made available for the 
oversight and monitoring of assistance made available for Gaza by this 
title and in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs.
    (f) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
initial obligation of funds appropriated by this title that are made 
available for assistance for Gaza, and every 90 days thereafter until 
all such funds are expended, the Secretary of State and the USAID 
Administrator shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report detailing the amount and purpose of such assistance 
provided during each respective quarter, including a description of the 
specific entity implementing such assistance.

    (g) <<NOTE: Time period. Expiration date. Reports.>> Assessment.--
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this division and 
every 90 days thereafter until September 30, 2025, the Secretary of 
State, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and 
other heads of elements of the intelligence community that the Secretary 
considers relevant, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report assessing whether funds appropriated by this title 
and made available for assistance for the West Bank and Gaza have been 
diverted by Hamas or other terrorist and extremist entities in the West 
Bank and Gaza: Provided, That such report shall include details on the 
amount and how such funds were made available and used by such entities: 
Provided further, That such report may be submitted in classified form, 
if necessary.

[[Page 138 STAT. 904]]

    (h) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Consultation.--Not later than 30 days after 
the date of enactment of this division but prior to the initial 
obligation of funds made available by this title for humanitarian 
assistance for Gaza, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator, as 
appropriate, shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
amount and anticipated uses of such funds.

    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Prior to the initial obligation of 
funds made available in this title in this division, but not later than 
15 days after the date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of 
State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations--
            (1) <<NOTE: Spend plans.>>  spend plans, as defined in 
        section 7034(s)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2023 
        (division K of Public Law 117-328), at the country, account, and 
        program level, for funds appropriated by this division under the 
        headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'' and ``Foreign 
        Military Financing Program'': Provided, That plans submitted 
        pursuant to this paragraph shall include for each program 
        notified--(A) total funding made available for such program, by 
        account and fiscal year; (B) funding that remains unobligated 
        for such program from prior year base or supplemental 
        appropriations; (C) funding that is obligated but unexpended for 
        such program; and (D) funding committed, but not yet notified 
        for such program; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Operating plans.>>  operating plans, as defined 
        in section 7062 of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2023 (division K of 
        Public Law 117-328), for funds appropriated by this title under 
        the headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' and ``Emergencies in the 
        Diplomatic and Consular Service''.

                                TITLE IV

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION

    Sec. 401.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this 
division is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal 
year involved.
    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this division 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 403.  Unless otherwise provided for by this division, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this division to appropriations 
accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions 
applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 404. <<NOTE: Deadline. Briefing.>> (a) Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, as 
appropriate, shall brief the appropriate congressional committees, in 
classified form, if necessary, on the status and welfare of hostages 
being held in Gaza.

    (b) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            (2) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

[[Page 138 STAT. 905]]

            (3) The Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (4) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.

    Sec. 405.  Funds appropriated by this division for foreign 
assistance (including foreign military sales), for the Department of 
State, for broadcasting subject to supervision of United States Agency 
for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
the purposes of section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), 
section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 406. <<NOTE: President.>>  Each amount designated in this 
division by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or repurposed or rescinded, if 
applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 407.  Any amount appropriated by this division, designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this division 
shall retain such designation.


                       spending reduction account


    Sec. 408. $0.
     This division may be cited as the ``Israel Security Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2024''.

  DIVISION B <<NOTE: Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2024.>> --UKRAINE SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2024, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$207,158,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 906]]

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$3,538,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$23,302,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Military Personnel, Space Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Space Force'', 
$4,192,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$4,887,581,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$976,405,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $69,045,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to 
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 907]]

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $371,475,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to 
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Space Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Space 
Force'', $8,443,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to 
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $27,930,780,000, to remain available until December 31, 2024, to 
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, 
That of the total amount provided under this heading in this division, 
$13,772,460,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, shall be 
for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative:  Provided further, That 
such funds for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative shall be 
available to the Secretary of Defense under the same terms and 
conditions as are provided for in section 8148 of the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2024 (division A of Public Law 118-47):  
Provided further, That 
of <<NOTE: Contracts. Reimbursement. Notification.>>  the total amount 
provided under this heading in this division, up to $13,414,432,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, may be transferred to 
accounts under the headings ``Operation and Maintenance'', 
``Procurement'', and ``Revolving and Management Funds'' for replacement, 
through new procurement or repair of existing unserviceable equipment, 
of defense articles from the stocks of the Department of Defense, and 
for reimbursement for defense services of the Department of Defense and 
military education and training, provided to the government of Ukraine 
or identified and notified to Congress for provision to the government 
of Ukraine or to foreign countries that have provided support to Ukraine 
at the request of the United States:  Provided further, That funds 
transferred pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which the funds are transferred:  Provided further, 
<<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of the details of such 
transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back 
and merged with this appropriation:  Provided further, That any transfer 
authority provided herein is in addition to any other transfer

[[Page 138 STAT. 908]]

authority provided by law:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$2,742,757,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$5,612,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$308,991,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$706,976,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$26,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$212,443,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being

[[Page 138 STAT. 909]]

for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$366,001,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$3,284,072,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for other expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$46,780,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $18,594,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $13,825,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $406,834,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for 
related expenses:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant

[[Page 138 STAT. 910]]

to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $194,125,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for 
related expenses:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For an additional amount for ``Office of the Inspector General'', 
$8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, which shall be 
for operation and maintenance of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including the Special Inspector General for Operation Atlantic Resolve, 
to carry out reviews of the activities of the Department of Defense to 
execute funds appropriated in this division, including assistance 
provided to Ukraine:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Briefing. Deadline.>>  the 
Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing not later than 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this division:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                Intelligence Community Management Account

    For an additional amount for ``Intelligence Community Management 
Account'', $2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to 
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Determinations. Notifications.>> (a) Upon the 
determination of the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary 
in the national interest, the Secretary may, with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer up to 
$1,000,000,000 only between the appropriations or funds made available 
in this title to the Department of Defense to respond to the situation 
in Ukraine and for related expenses: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
notify the Congress promptly of each transfer made pursuant to the 
authority in this subsection: Provided further, That such authority is 
in addition to any transfer authority otherwise provided by law and is 
subject to the same terms and conditions as the authority

[[Page 138 STAT. 911]]

provided in section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2024 (division A of Public Law 118-47), except for monetary 
limitations concerning the amount of authority available.

    (b) Upon the determination by the Director of National Intelligence 
that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Director 
may, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, transfer up to $250,000,000 only between the appropriations or 
funds made available in this title for the National Intelligence 
Program: Provided, That the Director of National Intelligence shall 
notify the Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to the 
authority in this subsection: Provided further, That such authority is 
in addition to any transfer authority otherwise provided by law and is 
subject to the same terms and conditions as the authority provided in 
section 8091 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2024 
(division A of Public Law 118-47), except for monetary limitations 
concerning the amount of authority available.
    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: Reports.>>   Not later than 60 days after the date 
of enactment of this division, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, 
and Foreign Relations of the Senate on measures being taken to account 
for United States defense articles designated for Ukraine since the 
February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine, particularly measures 
with regard to such articles that require enhanced end-use monitoring; 
measures to ensure that such articles reach their intended recipients 
and are used for their intended purposes; and any other measures to 
promote accountability for the use of such articles: Provided, That such 
report shall include a description of any occurrences of articles not 
reaching their intended recipients or used for their intended purposes 
and a description of any remedies taken: Provided further, That such 
report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied 
by a classified annex.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Time period. Expiration date. Reports. List.>>  
Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this division, and 
every 30 days thereafter through fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide a 
written report to the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committees on 
Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign Relations of the Senate 
describing United States security assistance provided to Ukraine since 
the February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine, including a 
comprehensive list of the defense articles and services provided to 
Ukraine and the associated authority and funding used to provide such 
articles and services: Provided, That such report shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a classified annex.

[[Page 138 STAT. 912]]

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                                 Science

    For an additional amount for ``Science'', $98,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for acquisition, distribution, and equipment 
for development and production of medical, stable, and radioactive 
isotopes:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'', 
$143,915,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, to respond 
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Federal Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Salaries and Expenses'', 
$5,540,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, to respond to 
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE III

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance'', 
$481,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for refugee 
and entrant assistance activities authorized by section 414 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading in this division may be used for grants or contracts with 
qualified organizations, including nonprofit entities, to provide 
culturally and linguistically appropriate services, including wraparound 
services, housing assistance, medical

[[Page 138 STAT. 913]]

assistance, legal assistance, and case management assistance:  Provided 
further, That amounts made available under this heading in this division 
may be used by the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement 
(Director) to issue awards or supplement awards previously made by the 
Director:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Allocations.>>  the Director, 
in carrying out section 412(c)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(c)(1)(A)) with amounts made available under this 
heading in this division, may allocate such amounts among the States in 
a manner that accounts for the most current data available:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 301.  Section 401(a)(1)(A) of the Additional Ukraine 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 (Public Law 117-128) <<NOTE: 8 USC 
1101 note.>>  is amended by striking ``September 30, 2023'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2024'': Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE IV

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                           diplomatic programs

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic Programs'', $60,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025, to respond to the 
situation in Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine: 
 Provided,  That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 914]]

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $39,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, to respond to the situation 
in Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                         transition initiatives

    For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended, for assistance for 
Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$7,899,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That of the total amount provided under this heading in this division, 
$7,849,000,000 shall be for assistance for Ukraine, which may include 
budget support and which may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reimbursement. Pensions.>> none of the 
funds made available for budget support pursuant to the preceding 
proviso may be made available for the reimbursement of pensions:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading 
in this division, $50,000,000 shall be to prevent and respond to food 
insecurity:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

             assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', $1,575,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, for assistance and related programs for Ukraine

[[Page 138 STAT. 915]]

and other countries identified in section 3 of the FREEDOM Support Act 
(22 U.S.C. 5801) and section 3(c) of the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (22 U.S.C. 5402(c)):  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                           Department of State

           international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, for assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation 
in Ukraine:  Provided, That such funds may be made available to support 
the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine and National Police of 
Ukraine, including units supporting or under the command of the Armed 
Forces of Ukraine:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

     nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $100,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, for assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by 
the situation in Ukraine:  Provided, 
<<NOTE: Deadline. Consultation.>> That not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of State shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations on the prioritization of demining 
efforts and how such efforts will be coordinated with development 
activities:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$1,600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, for 
assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in 
Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That amounts made available 
under this heading in this division and unobligated balances of amounts 
made available under this heading in Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs for fiscal 
year 2024 and prior fiscal years shall be available for the cost of 
loans and loan guarantees as authorized by section 2606 of the Ukraine 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 (division N of Public Law 117-
103), subject to the terms and conditions provided in such section, or 
as otherwise authorized by law:  Provided further, That loan guarantees 
made using amounts described in the preceding proviso for loans financed

[[Page 138 STAT. 916]]

by the Federal Financing Bank may be provided notwithstanding any 
provision of law limiting the percentage of loan principal that may be 
guaranteed:  Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 of funds made 
available under this heading in this division, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, may be used by the Department of 
State for necessary expenses for the general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales, including management and oversight of 
such programs and activities:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 401. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During fiscal year 2024, section 
506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318(a)(1)) 
shall be applied by substituting ``$7,800,000,000'' for 
``$100,000,000''.

    Sec. 402. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During fiscal year 2024, section 
506(a)(2)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2318(a)(2)(B)) shall be applied by substituting ``$400,000,000'' for 
``$200,000,000'' in the matter preceding clause (i), and by substituting 
``$150,000,000'' for ``$75,000,000'' in clause (i).

    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  During fiscal year 2024, section 
552(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2348a(c)(2)) 
shall be applied by substituting ``$50,000,000'' for ``$25,000,000''.

    Sec. 404. (a) Funds appropriated by this division under the headings 
``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'' to respond to the situation in Ukraine and in countries 
impacted by the situation in Ukraine may be transferred to, and merged 
with, funds made available under the headings ``United States 
International Development Finance Corporation--Corporate Capital 
Account'', ``United States International Development Finance 
Corporation--Program Account'', ``Export-Import Bank of the United 
States--Program Account'', and ``Trade and Development Agency'' for such 
purpose.
    (b) <<NOTE: Consultation. Notification.>>  The transfer authority 
provided by this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law, and is subject to prior consultation with, and the 
regular notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

    (c) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon a determination that all or part 
of the funds transferred pursuant to the authority provided by this 
section are not necessary for such purposes, such amounts may be 
transferred back to such appropriations.

    Sec. 405. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Section 1705 of the Additional 
Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023 (division M of Public Law 
117-328) shall apply to funds appropriated by this division under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Ukraine.

    Sec. 406. <<NOTE: Russia. Belarus.>>  None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this title in this division may be made 
available for assistance for the Governments of the Russian Federation 
or Belarus, including entities owned or controlled by such Governments.

[[Page 138 STAT. 917]]

    Sec. 407. (a) Section 2606 of the Ukraine Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2022 (division N of Public Law 117-103) <<NOTE: 136 
Stat. 785.>>  is amended as follows:

    (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``and North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) allies'' and inserting ``, North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) allies, major non-NATO allies, and the Indo-Pacific 
region''; by striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting 
``$8,000,000,000''; and by striking ``, except that such rate may not be 
less than the prevailing interest rate on marketable Treasury securities 
of similar maturity''; and
    (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``and NATO allies'' and inserting 
``, NATO allies, major non-NATO allies, and the Indo-Pacific region''; 
by striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$8,000,000,000''; and by 
inserting at the end of the second proviso ``except for guarantees of 
loans by the Federal Financing Bank''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Loans. Time periods.>> Funds made available for the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees for major non-NATO allies and 
the Indo-Pacific region pursuant to section 2606 of division N of Public 
Law 117-103, as amended by subsection (a), may only be made available 
from funds appropriated by this division under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'' and available balances from under such 
heading in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Certification. Reports.>> such funds may only be made 
available if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees, not less than 15 days prior to the 
obligation of such funds, that such direct loan or loan guarantee is in 
the national security interest of the United States, is being provided 
in response to exigent circumstances, is addressing a mutually agreed 
upon emergency requirement of the recipient country, and the recipient 
country has a plan to repay such loan: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Consultation.>> That not less than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of State shall consult 
with such committees on the implementation of this subsection.

    (c) Amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the Budget are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 408.  Funds <<NOTE: Consultation.>>  appropriated under the 
headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'' in this title in this division may be made available 
as contributions, following consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations.

    Sec. 409. <<NOTE: Deadline. Plans.>>   Prior to the initial 
obligation of funds made available in this title in this division, but 
not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this division, the 
Secretary of State and USAID Administrator, as appropriate, shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations--
            (1) spend plans, as defined in section 7034(s)(4) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2023 (division K of Public Law 117-328), at 
        the country, account, and program level, for funds appropriated 
        by this division under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        ``Transition Initiatives'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
        Central Asia'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism,

[[Page 138 STAT. 918]]

        Demining and Related Programs'', and ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'': Provided, That plans submitted pursuant to 
        this paragraph shall include for each program notified--(A) 
        total funding made available for such program, by account and 
        fiscal year; (B) funding that remains unobligated for such 
        program from prior year base or supplemental appropriations; (C) 
        funding that is obligated but unexpended for such program; and 
        (D) funding committed, but not yet notified for such program; 
        and
            (2) operating plans, as defined in section 7062 of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2023 (division K of Public Law 117-328), for 
        funds appropriated by this title under the headings ``Diplomatic 
        Programs'' and ``Operating Expenses''.

                                 TITLE V

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION

    Sec. 501.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this 
division is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal 
year involved.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this division 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  Unless otherwise provided for by this division, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this division to appropriations 
accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions 
applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 504. <<NOTE: Deadline. Strategy.>>  Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of State and 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of other 
relevant Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign Relations of 
the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a strategy regarding 
United States support for Ukraine against aggression by the Russian 
Federation: Provided, That such strategy shall be multi-year, establish 
specific and achievable objectives, define and prioritize United States 
national security interests, and include the metrics to be used to 
measure progress in achieving such objectives: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Estimate.>> such strategy shall include an estimate, on a 
fiscal year-by-fiscal year basis, of the resources required by the 
United States to achieve such objectives, including to help hasten 
Ukrainian victory against Russia's invasion forces in a manner most 
favorable to United States interests and objectives, and a description 
of the national security implications for the United States if those 
objectives are not met: Provided further, That such strategy shall 
describe how each specific aspect of U.S. assistance, including defense 
articles and U.S. foreign assistance, is intended at the tactical, 
operational, and strategic level to help Ukraine end the conflict as a 
democratic, independent, and sovereign country capable of deterring and 
defending its territory against future aggression: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Classified information. Assessment.>> That such 
strategy shall include a classified independent assessment from the 
Commander, U.S. European Command, describing any specific defense 
articles and services not yet provided to Ukraine that would result in 
meaningful battlefield

[[Page 138 STAT. 919]]

gains in alignment with the strategy: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Classified information. Assessment.>> That such 
strategy shall include a classified assessment from the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff that the provision of specific defense articles 
and services provided to Ukraine does not pose significant risk to the 
defense capabilities of the United States military: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Assessment. Schedule.>> That the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment in coordination with the Director, 
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation provide an assessment of the 
executability and a production schedule for any specific defense 
articles recommended by the Commander, U.S. European Command that 
require procurement: Provided further, That such <<NOTE: Foreign 
countries.>> strategy shall include information on support to the 
Government of the Russian Federation from the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea, related to the Russian campaign in Ukraine, and its impact on 
such strategy: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Updates. Time 
period. Termination date.>>  such strategy shall be updated not less 
than quarterly, as appropriate, until September 30, 2025, and such 
updates shall be submitted to such committees: Provided further, That 
unless otherwise specified by this section, such strategy shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

    Sec. 505. (a) Transfer of Long-Range ATACMS Required.--As soon 
as <<NOTE: President.>> practicable after the date of enactment of this 
division, the President shall transfer long range Army Tactical Missile 
Systems to the Government of Ukraine to assist the Government of Ukraine 
in defending itself and achieving victory against the Russian 
Federation.

    (b) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Notification.--If the President 
determines that executing the transfer of long-range Army Tactical 
Missile Systems to the Government of Ukraine pursuant to subsection (a) 
would be detrimental to the national security interests of the United 
States, the President may withhold such transfer and shall notify the 
congressional defense committees, the Committees on Appropriations and 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives of such 
determination.

    Sec. 506. (a) In-Person Monitoring.--The Secretary of State shall, 
to the maximum extent practicable, ensure that funds appropriated by 
this division under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'' and made available for project-based 
assistance for Ukraine are subject to in-person monitoring by United 
States personnel or by vetted third party monitors.
    (b) <<NOTE: Reports. Audits. Evaluations.>>  Certification.--Not 
later than 15 days prior to the initial obligation of funds appropriated 
by this division and made available for assistance for Ukraine under the 
headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', and 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'', the Secretary of State and the 
USAID Administrator shall jointly certify and report to the appropriate 
congressional committees that mechanisms for monitoring and oversight of 
funds are in place and functioning to ensure accountability of such 
funds to prevent waste, fraud, abuse, diversion, and corruption, 
including mechanisms such as use of third

[[Page 138 STAT. 920]]

party monitors, enhanced end-use monitoring, external and independent 
audits and evaluations, randomized spot checks, and regular reporting on 
outcomes achieved and progress made toward stated program objectives, 
consistent with the strategy required by section 504 of this 
title: <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Provided, That section 7015(e) of Public 
Law 118-47 shall apply to the certification requirement of this 
subsection.

    (c) <<NOTE: President. Reports.>> Cost Matching.--Funds appropriated 
by this division and prior Acts for fiscal year 2024 under the headings 
``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'' that are made available for contributions to the 
Government of Ukraine may not exceed 50 percent of the total amount 
provided for such assistance by all donors: Provided, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Determination.>> That the President may waive the limitation 
in this subsection if the President determines and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that to do so is in the national 
security interest of the United States, including a detailed 
justification for such determination and an explanation as to why other 
donors to the Government of Ukraine are unable to meet or exceed such 
level: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time period. Updates.>>  following 
such determination, the President shall submit a report to the Speaker 
and Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, the Majority and 
Minority Leaders of the Senate, and the appropriate congressional 
committees every 120 days while assistance is provided in reliance on 
the determination under the previous proviso detailing steps taken by 
the Department of State to increase other donor contributions and an 
update on the status of such contributions: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Continuation.>>  That the requirements of this 
subsection shall continue in effect until such funds are expended.

    Sec. 507. <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>>  (a) Arrangement 
Required.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this division, the President 
shall enter into an arrangement with the Government of Ukraine relating 
to the repayment by Ukraine to the United States of economic assistance 
provided to Ukraine by the United States to respond to the situation in 
Ukraine, and for related expenses, that are made available under the 
headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'' in title IV of this division.

    (b) Terms.--Repayment required by the arrangement required by 
subsection (a) shall be at terms to be set by the President.
    (c) Limitation on Arrangement Terms.--The arrangement required 
pursuant to subsection (a) may not provide for the cancellation of any 
or all amounts of indebtedness except as provided in subsection (d).
    (d) <<NOTE: Effective dates.>>  Cancellation of Indebtedness.--
            (1) The President may not before November 15, 2024 take any 
        action related to the indebtedness of the Government of Ukraine 
        that cancels any indebtedness incurred by Ukraine pursuant to 
        this section.
            (2) At any time after November 15, 2024, the President may, 
        subject to congressional review provided by section 508, cancel 
        up to 50 percent of the total indebtedness incurred by Ukraine 
        or anticipated to be incurred by Ukraine with respect to 
        economic assistance and related expenses made available under 
        the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for 
        Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' in title IV of this division. 
        Upon completion of the congressional review

[[Page 138 STAT. 921]]

        process set forth in section 508, such cancellation shall be 
        final and irrevocable.
            (3) The President may, subject to congressional review 
        provided by section 508, cancel any remaining indebtedness to 
        the government of Ukraine under this section at any time after 
        January 1, 2026. Upon completion of the congressional review 
        process set forth in section 508, such cancellation shall be 
        final and irrevocable.

    Sec. 508. <<NOTE: President.>>  (a) Report Required.--

    (1) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, before 
taking any action described in paragraph (2), the President shall submit 
to Congress a written report that describes that action and the reason 
for that action.
    (2) Action Described.--An action described in this paragraph is an 
action related to the indebtedness of the Government of Ukraine 
authorized by section 507(d)(1).
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective dates.>>  Congressional Review Period.--

    (1) 2024.--During calendar year 2024, if the President submits to 
Congress a report under subsection (a)(1), the President may not take 
any action with respect to the indebtedness of the Government of Ukraine 
until the earlier of--
            (A) the date that is 10 calendar days after the date of such 
        submission; or
            (B) the date on which Congress has considered and failed to 
        pass a joint resolution of disapproval, as provided in this 
        section.

    (2) Succeeding Years.--
            (A) In general.--During calendar year 2025 or any calendar 
        year thereafter, if the President submits to Congress a report 
        under subsection (a)(1), the President may not take any action 
        with respect to the indebtedness of the Government of Ukraine 
        until the earlier of--
                    (i) the date that is 30 calendar days after the date 
                of such submission, except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B); or
                    (ii) the date on which Congress has considered and 
                failed to pass a joint resolution of disapproval, as 
                provided in this section.
            (B) Exception.--The period for congressional review of a 
        report submitted under subsection (a)(1) shall be 60 calendar 
        days if the report is submitted to Congress on or after July 10 
        and on or before September 7 in any calendar year.

    (3) Veto Message.--If the President vetoes a joint resolution of 
disapproval, he may not take any action with respect to the indebtedness 
of Ukraine for 5 calendar days after the veto message is received by the 
appropriate House of Congress.
    (c) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  Joint Resolution of Disapproval.--In this 
section, the term ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution--

    (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  that is introduced not later than 3 
calendar days after the date on which a report of the President referred 
to in subsection (a)(1) is received by Congress;

    (2) which does not have a preamble;
    (3) the title of which is as follows: ``Joint resolution relating to 
the disapproval of the Presidential report with respect to the 
indebtedness of the Government of Ukraine''; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 922]]

    (4) the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: 
``That Congress disapproves the proposal relating to the indebtedness of 
the Government of Ukraine submitted by the President of the United 
States to Congress on _____'', with the blank space filled with the 
appropriate date of submission of the report under subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Fast-track Consideration in House of Representatives.--
    (1) Reporting and Discharge.--Any committee of the House of 
Representatives to which a joint resolution is referred shall report the 
joint resolution to the House of Representatives not later than 5 
calendar days after the date on which Congress receives the report 
described in subsection (a)(1). If a committee fails to report the joint 
resolution within that period, the committee shall be discharged from 
further consideration of the joint resolution and the joint resolution 
shall be referred to the appropriate calendar.
    (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Proceeding to Consideration.--After each 
committee authorized to consider a joint resolution reports the joint 
resolution to the House of Representatives or has been discharged from 
its consideration, it shall be in order, not later than the 6th calendar 
day after the date on which Congress receives the report described in 
subsection (a)(1), to move to proceed to consider the joint resolution 
in the House of Representatives. All points of order against the motion 
are waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after the House of 
Representatives has disposed of a motion to proceed on the joint 
resolution. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
motion to its adoption without intervening motion. The motion shall not 
be debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is 
disposed of shall not be in order.

    (3) Consideration.--The joint resolution shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against the joint resolution and against its 
consideration are waived. <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to its passage 
without intervening motion except two hours of debate equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent. A motion to reconsider 
the vote on passage of the joint resolution shall not be in order.

    (e) Fast-track Consideration in Senate.--
    (1) Placement on Calendar.--Upon introduction in the Senate, the 
joint resolution shall be placed immediately on the calendar.
    (2) Floor Consideration.--
            (A) In general.--It shall not be in order to move to proceed 
        to a joint resolution that has been placed on the calendar 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) unless a motion signed by 16 Senators 
        has been presented to the Senate. Thereafter, notwithstanding 
        Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order, 
        during the periods described in subparagraph (B) (even though a 
        previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to), for 
        any Senator to move to proceed to the consideration of the joint 
        resolution, and all points of order against the joint resolution 
        (and against consideration of the joint resolution) are waived. 
        The motion to proceed is not debatable. The motion is not 
        subject to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote 
        by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in 
        order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the joint 
        resolution is agreed to, the

[[Page 138 STAT. 923]]

        joint resolution shall remain the unfinished business until 
        disposed of.
            (B) Periods described.--The periods described in this 
        subparagraph are the following:
                    (i) During calendar year 2024, the period beginning 
                on the day after the date on which the joint resolution 
                was placed on the calendar and ending on the 4th day 
                after the date on which the joint resolution was placed 
                on the calendar.
                    (ii) During succeeding years under subsection 
                (b)(2)(A), the period beginning on the day after the 
                date on which the joint resolution was placed on the 
                calendar and ending 20 calendar days later.
                    (iii) During succeeding years under subsection 
                (b)(2)(B), the period beginning on the day after the 
                date on which the joint resolution was placed on the 
                calendar and ending 50 calendar days later.
            (C) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Debate.--Debate on the joint 
        resolution, and on all debatable motions and appeals in 
        connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 
        hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority and 
        minority leaders or their designees. A motion further to limit 
        debate is in order and not debatable. An amendment to, or a 
        motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration 
        of other business, or a motion to recommit the joint resolution 
        is not in order.
            (D) Vote on passage.--The vote on passage shall occur 
        immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a joint 
        resolution and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the 
        debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate.
            (E) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals from the 
        decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules 
        of the Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to 
        a joint resolution shall be decided without debate.
            (F) One joint resolution of disapproval per review period.--
        Only one joint resolution shall be in order during each of the 
        review periods described in subsection (b), unless the 
        additional joint resolution is a joint resolution of the House 
        of Representatives considered under paragraph (2) or (3) of 
        subsection (f).

    (f) Rules Relating to Senate and House of Representatives.--
    (1) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Coordination With Action by Other 
House.--If, before the passage by one House of a joint resolution of 
that House, that House receives from the other House a joint resolution, 
then the following procedures shall apply:
            (A) The joint resolution of the other House shall not be 
        referred to a committee.
            (B) With respect to a joint resolution of the House 
        receiving the resolution--
                    (i) the procedure in that House shall be the same as 
                if no joint resolution had been received from the other 
                House; but
                    (ii) the vote on passage shall be on the joint 
                resolution of the other House.

    (2) Treatment of Joint Resolution of Other House.--If one House 
fails to introduce or consider a joint resolution under

[[Page 138 STAT. 924]]

this section, the joint resolution of the other House shall be entitled 
to expedited floor procedures under this section.
    (3) Treatment of Companion Measures.--If, following passage of the 
joint resolution in the Senate, the Senate then receives the companion 
measure from the House of Representatives, the companion measure shall 
not be debatable.
    (4) <<NOTE: Time periods. President.>>  Consideration After 
Passage.--
            (A) In general.--If Congress passes a joint resolution, the 
        period beginning on the date on which the President is presented 
        with the joint resolution and ending on the date on which the 
        President takes action with respect to the joint resolution 
        shall be disregarded in computing the 10-, 30-, or 60-calendar-
        day period described in subsection (b), but the President may 
        not take any action with respect to the indebtedness of the 
        Government of Ukraine during any such period.
            (B) Vetoes.--If the President vetoes the joint resolution, 
        debate on a veto message in the Senate under this section shall 
        be 1 hour equally divided between the majority and minority 
        leaders or their designees.

    (5) Rules of House of Representatives and Senate.--This subsection 
and subsections (c), (d), and (e) are enacted by Congress--
            (A) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  as an exercise of the 
        rulemaking power of the Senate and House of Representatives, 
        respectively, and as such are deemed a part of the rules of each 
        House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the 
        procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint 
        resolution, and supersede other rules only to the extent that 
        they are inconsistent with such rules; and
            (B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
        procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to 
        the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.

    Sec. 509.  Funds appropriated by this division for foreign 
assistance (including foreign military sales), for the Department of 
State, for broadcasting subject to supervision of United States Agency 
for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
the purposes of section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), 
section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 510. <<NOTE: President. Emergency designations.>>   Each amount 
designated in this division by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
repurposed or rescinded, if applicable) only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 511.  Any amount appropriated by this division, designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this division 
shall retain such designation.

[[Page 138 STAT. 925]]

                       spending reduction account


    Sec. 512. $0.
     This division may be cited as the ``Ukraine Security Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2024''.

 DIVISION C-- <<NOTE: Indo-Pacific Security Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2024.>> INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

     That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2024, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$557,758,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to support 
improvements to the submarine industrial base and for related expenses:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,900,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, to 
respond to the situation in Taiwan and for related expenses:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts. Reimbursement. Taiwan. Notification.>>  
That such funds may be transferred to accounts under the headings 
``Operation and Maintenance'', ``Procurement'', and ``Revolving and 
Management Funds'' for replacement, through new procurement or repair of 
existing unserviceable equipment, of defense articles from the stocks of 
the Department of Defense, and for reimbursement for defense services of 
the Department of Defense and military education and training, provided 
to Taiwan or identified and notified to Congress for provision to Taiwan 
or to foreign countries that have provided support to Taiwan at the 
request of the United States:  Provided further, That funds transferred 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be merged with and available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which the funds are transferred:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  That the Secretary of 
Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of the details 
of such transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are 
not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back and merged with

[[Page 138 STAT. 926]]

this appropriation:  Provided further, That any transfer authority 
provided herein is in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
by law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                    Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
$2,155,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028, to support 
improvements to the submarine industrial base and for related expenses:  
Provided, That of the total amount provided under this heading in this 
division, funds shall be available as follows:
            Columbia Class Submarine (AP), $1,955,000,000; and
            Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $200,000,000:

  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$293,570,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to support 
improvements to the submarine industrial base and for related expenses:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Production Act Purchases'', 
$132,600,000, to remain available until expended, for activities by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the 
Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533):  
Provided, That such amounts shall be obligated and expended by the 
Secretary of Defense as if delegated the necessary authorities conferred 
by the Defense Production Act of 1950:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $7,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, to support improvements to the submarine industrial base and for 
related expenses:  Provided, That such amount

[[Page 138 STAT. 927]]

is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 101.  For an additional amount for the Department of Defense, 
$542,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for transfer 
to operation and maintenance accounts, procurement accounts, and 
research, development, test and evaluation accounts, in addition to 
amounts otherwise made available for such purpose, only for unfunded 
priorities of the United States Indo-Pacific Command for fiscal year 
2024 (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code): Provided, That <<NOTE: Time period. Execution 
plan.>>  none of the funds provided under this section may be obligated 
or expended until 30 days after the Secretary of Defense, through the 
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), provides the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed 
execution plan for such funds: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time 
period. Notification.>>  not less than 15 days prior to any transfer of 
funds, the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
committees of the details of any such transfer: Provided further, That 
upon transfer, the funds shall be merged with and available for the same 
purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided further, That any transfer authority provided 
herein is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law: 
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $281,914,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2028, to support improvements to the submarine industrial base and for 
related expenses:  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this division, the 
Secretary of the Navy, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate an 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading in this division: 
 Provided further, That such funds may be obligated or expended for 
planning and design and military construction projects not otherwise 
authorized by law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 928]]

                                TITLE III

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                    INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$2,000,000,000 (increased by $500,000,000) (reduced by $500,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, for assistance for the Indo-
Pacific region and for related expenses:  Provided, <<NOTE: Loans.>>  
That amounts made available under this heading in this division and 
unobligated balances of amounts made available under this heading in 
Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs for fiscal year 2024 and prior fiscal 
years shall be available for the cost of loans and loan guarantees as 
authorized by section 2606 of the Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2022 (division N of Public Law 117-103), subject to the terms and 
conditions provided in such section, or as otherwise authorized by law:  
Provided further, That loan guarantees made using amounts described in 
the preceding proviso for loans financed by the Federal Financing Bank 
may be provided notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the 
percentage of loan principal that may be guaranteed:  Provided further, 
That up to $5,000,000 of funds made available under this heading in this 
division, in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, 
may be used by the Department of State for necessary expenses for the 
general costs of administering military assistance and sales, including 
management and oversight of such programs and activities:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

                         Multilateral Assistance

        contribution to the international development association

    For an additional amount for ``Contribution to the International 
Development Association'', $250,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be made available for a contribution to the 
International Development Association Special Program to Enhance Crisis 
Response Window:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 929]]

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2024, 
section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2318(a)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``$7,800,000,000'' for 
``$100,000,000''.

    Sec. 302.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2024, 
section 506(a)(2)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2318(a)(2)(B)) shall be applied by substituting ``$400,000,000'' for 
``$200,000,000'' in the matter preceding clause (i), and by substituting 
``$150,000,000'' for ``$75,000,000'' in clause (i).

    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   During fiscal year 2024, 
section 552(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2348a(c)(2)) shall be applied by substituting ``$50,000,000'' for 
``$25,000,000''.

    Sec. 304. (a) Section 2606 of the Ukraine Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2022 (division N of Public Law 117-103) <<NOTE: 136 
Stat. 785.>>  is amended as follows:

    (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``and North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) allies'' and inserting ``, North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) allies, major non-NATO allies, and the Indo-Pacific 
region''; by striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting 
``$8,000,000,000''; and by striking ``, except that such rate may not be 
less than the prevailing interest rate on marketable Treasury securities 
of similar maturity''.
    (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``and NATO allies'' and inserting 
``, NATO allies, major non-NATO allies, and the Indo-Pacific region''; 
by striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$8,000,000,000''; and by 
inserting at the end of the second proviso ``except for guarantees of 
loans by the Federal Financing Bank''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Loans. Time periods.>>  Funds made available for the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees for major non-NATO allies and 
the Indo-Pacific region pursuant to section 2606 of division N of Public 
Law 117-103, as amended by subsection (a), may only be made available 
from funds appropriated by this division under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'' and available balances from under such 
heading in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Certification. Reports.>>  such funds may only be made 
available if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees, not less than 15 days prior to the 
obligation of such funds, that such direct loan or loan guarantee is in 
the national security interest of the United States, is being provided 
in response to exigent circumstances, is addressing a mutually agreed 
upon emergency requirement of the recipient country, and the recipient 
country has a plan to repay such loan: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Consultation.>>  That not less than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this division, the Secretary of State shall consult 
with such committees on the implementation of this subsection.

    (c) Amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the Budget are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 305. <<NOTE: Deadline. Spend plans.>>   Prior to the initial 
obligation of funds made available in this title in this division, but 
not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this division, the 
Secretary of State and

[[Page 138 STAT. 930]]

the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations spend plans, as defined in section 
7034(s)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2023 (division K of Public Law 117-328), at 
the country, account, and program level, for funds appropriated by this 
division under the headings ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' and 
``Contribution to the International Development Association'': Provided, 
That plans submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include for each 
program notified--(A) total funding made available for such program, by 
account and fiscal year; (B) funding that remains unobligated for such 
program from prior year base or supplemental appropriations; (C) funding 
that is obligated but unexpended for such program; and (D) funding 
committed, but not yet notified for such program.





__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 931]]

                                TITLE IV

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION

    Sec. 401.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this 
division is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal 
year involved.
    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this division 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 403.  Unless otherwise provided for by this division, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this division to appropriations 
accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions 
applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 404.  Funds appropriated by this division for foreign 
assistance (including foreign military sales), for the Department of 
State, for broadcasting subject to supervision of United States Agency 
for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
the purposes of section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), 
section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 405. <<NOTE: President. Emergency designations.>>   Each amount 
designated in this division by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
repurposed or rescinded, if applicable) only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 406.  Any amount appropriated by this division, designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this division 
shall retain such designation.


                       spending reduction account


    Sec. 407. $0.
     This division may be cited as the ``Indo-Pacific Security 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024''.

  DIVISION D <<NOTE: 21st Century Peace through Strength Act.>> --21ST 
CENTURY PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH ACT
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``21st Century Peace through 
Strength Act''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

                    DIVISION E--FEND OFF FENTANYL ACT

Sec. 3001. Short titles.
Sec. 3002. Sense of Congress.

[[Page 138 STAT. 932]]

Sec. 3003. Definitions.

                       TITLE I--SANCTIONS MATTERS

  Subtitle A--Sanctions in Response to National Emergency Relating to 
                          Fentanyl Trafficking

Sec. 3101. Finding; policy.
Sec. 3102. Use of national emergency authorities; reporting.
Sec. 3103. Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking 
           by transnational criminal organizations.
Sec. 3104. Penalties; waivers; exceptions.
Sec. 3105. Treatment of forfeited property of transnational criminal 
           organizations.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 3111. Ten-year statute of limitations for violations of sanctions.
Sec. 3112. Classified report and briefing on staffing of office of 
           foreign assets control.
Sec. 3113. Report on drug transportation routes and use of vessels with 
           mislabeled cargo.
Sec. 3114. Report on actions of People's Republic of China with respect 
           to persons involved in fentanyl supply chain.

                 TITLE II--ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING MATTERS

Sec. 3201. Designation of illicit fentanyl transactions of sanctioned 
           persons as of primary money laundering concern.
Sec. 3202. Treatment of transnational criminal organizations in 
           suspicious transactions reports of the financial crimes 
           enforcement network.
Sec. 3203. Report on trade-based money laundering in trade with Mexico, 
           the People's Republic of China, and Burma.

          TITLE III--EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS

Sec. 3301. Exception relating to importation of goods.

     DIVISION F--REBUILDING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY AND OPPORTUNITY FOR 
                             UKRAINIANS ACT

 TITLE I--REBUILDING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY AND OPPORTUNITY FOR UKRAINIANS 
                                   ACT

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

            TITLE II--REPURPOSING OF RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS

Sec. 101. Findings; sense of Congress.
Sec. 102. Sense of Congress regarding importance of the Russian 
           Federation providing compensation to Ukraine.
Sec. 103. Prohibition on release of blocked Russian sovereign assets.
Sec. 104. Authority to ensure compensation to Ukraine using seized 
           Russian sovereign assets and Russian aggressor state 
           sovereign assets.
Sec. 105. International mechanism to use Russian sovereign assets and 
           Russian aggressor state sovereign assets to provide for the 
           reconstruction of Ukraine.
Sec. 106. Report on use of transferred Russian sovereign assets for 
           reconstruction.
Sec. 107. Assessment by Secretary of State and Administrator of USAID on 
           reconstruction and rebuilding needs of Ukraine.
Sec. 108. Extensions.

                        DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 1. Report and imposition of sanctions to harmonize with allied 
           sanctions.
Sec. 2. Inclusion of information on emerging technological developments 
           in annual China Military Power report.

   DIVISION H--PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARY CONTROLLED 
                            APPLICATIONS ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Prohibition of foreign adversary controlled applications.
Sec. 3. Judicial review.

 DIVISION I--PROTECTING AMERICANS' DATA FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARIES ACT OF 
                                  2024

Sec. 1. Short title.

[[Page 138 STAT. 933]]

Sec. 2. Prohibition on transfer of personally identifiable sensitive 
           data of United States individuals to foreign adversaries.

                          DIVISION J--SHIP ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Statement of policy.
Sec. 3. Imposition of sanctions with respect to Iranian petroleum.
Sec. 4. Report on Iranian petroleum and petroleum products exports.
Sec. 5. Strategy to counter role of the People's Republic of China in 
           evasion of sanctions with respect to Iran.
Sec. 6. Definitions.

                       DIVISION K--FIGHT CRIME ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy.
Sec. 4. Report.
Sec. 5. Sanctions to combat the proliferation of Iranian missiles.
Sec. 6. Report to identify, and designation as foreign terrorist 
           organizations of, Iranian persons that have attacked united 
           states citizens using unmanned combat aerial vehicles.
Sec. 7. Definitions.

                          DIVISION L--MAHSA ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Imposition of sanctions on Iran's supreme leader's office, its 
           appointees, and any affiliated persons.
Sec. 3. Severability.

 DIVISION M--HAMAS AND OTHER PALESTINIAN TERRORIST GROUPS INTERNATIONAL 
                        FINANCING PREVENTION ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Statement of policy.
Sec. 3. Imposition of sanctions with respect to foreign persons 
           supporting acts of terrorism or engaging in significant 
           transactions with senior members of Hamas, Palestinian 
           Islamic jihad and other Palestinian terrorist organizations.
Sec. 4. Imposition of measures with respect to foreign states providing 
           support to Hamas, Palestinian Islamic jihad and other 
           Palestinian terrorist organizations.
Sec. 5. Reports on activities to disrupt global fundraising, financing, 
           and money laundering activities of Hamas, Palestinian Islamic 
           jihad, al-aqsa martyrs brigade, the lion's den or any 
           affiliate or successor thereof.
Sec. 6. Termination.
Sec. 7. Definitions.

                DIVISION N--NO TECHNOLOGY FOR TERROR ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Application of foreign-direct product rules to Iran.

 DIVISION O--STRENGTHENING TOOLS TO COUNTER THE USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Statement of policy.
Sec. 3. Modification and extension of Sanctioning the Use of Civilians 
           as Defenseless Shields Act.
Sec. 4. Report on countering the use of human shields.
Sec. 5. Confronting asymmetric and malicious cyber activities.
Sec. 6. Sanctions with respect to threats to current or former united 
           states officials.

        DIVISION P--ILLICIT CAPTAGON TRAFFICKING SUPPRESSION ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy.
Sec. 4. Imposition of sanctions with respect to illicit captagon 
           trafficking.
Sec. 5. Determinations with respect to the government of Syria, 
           hizballah, and networks affiliated with the government of 
           Syria or hizballah.
Sec. 6. Definitions.

 DIVISION Q--END FINANCING FOR HAMAS AND STATE SPONSORS OF TERRORISM ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.

[[Page 138 STAT. 934]]

Sec. 2. Report on financing for Hamas.
Sec. 3. Multilateral Strategy to Disrupt Hamas Financing.

           DIVISION R--HOLDING IRANIAN LEADERS ACCOUNTABLE ACT

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Report on financial institutions and assets connected to certain 
           Iranian officials.
Sec. 4. Restrictions on certain financial institutions.
Sec. 5. Exceptions for national security; implementation authority.
Sec. 6. Sunset.
Sec. 7. Definitions.

           DIVISION S--IRAN-CHINA ENERGY SANCTIONS ACT OF 2023

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Sanctions on foreign financial institutions with respect to the 
           purchase of petroleum products and unmanned aerial vehicles 
           from Iran.

                      DIVISION T--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

Sec. 1. Budgetary effects.

 DIVISION E-- <<NOTE: Fentanyl Eradication and Narcotics Deterrence Off 
Fentanyl.>> FEND OFF FENTANYL ACT
SEC. 3001. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2341 note.>> SHORT TITLES.

    This division may be cited as the ``Fentanyl Eradication and 
Narcotics Deterrence Off Fentanyl'' or the ``FEND Off Fentanyl Act''.
SEC. 3002. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the proliferation of fentanyl is causing an 
        unprecedented surge in overdose deaths in the United States, 
        fracturing families and communities, and necessitating a 
        comprehensive policy response to combat its lethal flow and to 
        mitigate the drug's devastating consequences;
            (2) the trafficking of fentanyl into the United States is a 
        national security threat that has killed hundreds of thousands 
        of United States citizens;
            (3) transnational criminal organizations, including cartels 
        primarily based in Mexico, are the main purveyors of fentanyl 
        into the United States and must be held accountable;
            (4) precursor chemicals sourced from the People's Republic 
        of China are--
                    (A) shipped from the People's Republic of China by 
                legitimate and illegitimate means;
                    (B) transformed through various synthetic processes 
                to produce different forms of fentanyl; and
                    (C) crucial to the production of illicit fentanyl by 
                transnational criminal organizations, contributing to 
                the ongoing opioid crisis;
            (5) the United States Government must remain vigilant to 
        address all new forms of fentanyl precursors and drugs used in 
        combination with fentanyl, such as Xylazine, which attribute to 
        overdose deaths of people in the United States;
            (6) to increase the cost of fentanyl trafficking, the United 
        States Government should work collaboratively across agencies 
        and should surge analytic capability to impose sanctions and 
        other remedies with respect to transnational criminal 
        organizations (including cartels), including foreign nationals 
        who facilitate the trade in illicit fentanyl and its precursors 
        from the People's Republic of China; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 935]]

            (7) the Department of the Treasury should focus on fentanyl 
        trafficking and its facilitators as one of the top national 
        security priorities for the Department.
SEC. 3003. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2341.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Financial Services of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
                    (A) means--
                          (i) any citizen or national of a foreign 
                      country; or
                          (ii) any entity not organized under the laws 
                      of the United States or a jurisdiction within the 
                      United States; and
                    (B) does not include the government of a foreign 
                country.
            (3) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.
            (4) Trafficking.--The term ``trafficking'', with respect to 
        fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids, has the 
        meaning given the term ``opioid trafficking'' in section 7203(8) 
        of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2302(8)).
            (5) Transnational criminal organization.--The term 
        ``transnational criminal organization'' includes--
                    (A) any organization designated as a significant 
                transnational criminal organization under part 590 of 
                title 31, Code of Federal Regulations;
                    (B) any of the organizations known as--
                          (i) the Sinaloa Cartel;
                          (ii) the Jalisco New Generation Cartel;
                          (iii) the Gulf Cartel;
                          (iv) the Los Zetas Cartel;
                          (v) the Juarez Cartel;
                          (vi) the Tijuana Cartel;
                          (vii) the Beltran-Leyva Cartel; or
                          (viii) La Familia Michoacana; or
                    (C) any successor organization to an organization 
                described in subparagraph (B) or as otherwise determined 
                by the President.
            (6) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
        means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United 
                States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, 
                including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
                    (C) any person in the United States.

[[Page 138 STAT. 936]]

                       TITLE I--SANCTIONS MATTERS

  Subtitle A-- <<NOTE: President.>> Sanctions in Response to National 
Emergency Relating to Fentanyl Trafficking
SEC. 3101. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2351.>> FINDING; POLICY.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that international trafficking of 
fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids constitutes an 
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign 
policy, and economy of the United States, and is a national emergency.
    (b) Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United States to apply 
economic and other financial sanctions to those who engage in the 
international trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other 
related opioids to protect the national security, foreign policy, and 
economy of the United States.
SEC. 3102. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2352.>> USE OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY 
                          AUTHORITIES; REPORTING.

    (a) In General.--The President may exercise all authorities provided 
under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this subtitle.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this division, and annually thereafter, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on actions taken by the executive branch 
        pursuant to this subtitle and any national emergency declared 
        with respect to the trafficking of fentanyl and trade in other 
        illicit drugs, including--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Regulations. Policies. Guidance.>> the 
                issuance of any new or revised regulations, policies, or 
                guidance;
                    (B) the imposition of sanctions;
                    (C) the collection of relevant information from 
                outside parties;
                    (D) the issuance or closure of general licenses, 
                specific licenses, and statements of licensing policy by 
                the Office of Foreign Assets Control;
                    (E) a description of any pending enforcement cases; 
                and
                    (F) <<NOTE: Procedures.>> the implementation of 
                mitigation procedures.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report required under paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include the 
        matters required under subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F) of 
        such paragraph in a classified annex.
SEC. 3103. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2353.>> IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH 
                          RESPECT TO FENTANYL TRAFFICKING BY 
                          TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Determination.>> The President shall 
impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any 
foreign person the President determines--

[[Page 138 STAT. 937]]

            (1) is knowingly involved in the significant trafficking of 
        fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids, 
        including such trafficking by a transnational criminal 
        organization; or
            (2) otherwise is knowingly involved in significant 
        activities of a transnational criminal organization relating to 
        the trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other 
        related opioids.

    (b) Sanctions Described.--The President, pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
may block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
property of a foreign person described in subsection (a) if such 
property and interests in property are in the United States, come within 
the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
United States person.
    (c) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Report Required.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this division, and annually 
thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on actions taken by the executive branch with 
respect to the foreign persons identified under subsection (a).
SEC. 3104. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2354.>> PENALTIES; WAIVERS; EXCEPTIONS.

    (a) Penalties.--Any person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this subtitle or any 
regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this subtitle shall be 
subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 
206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in 
subsection (a) of that section.
    (b) National Security Waiver.-- <<NOTE: Determination.>> The 
President may waive the application of sanctions under this subtitle 
with respect to a foreign person if the President determines that such 
waiver is in the national security interest of the United States.

    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--This subtitle 
        shall not apply with respect to activities subject to the 
        reporting requirements under title V of the National Security 
        Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized 
        intelligence activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception for compliance with international obligations 
        and law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under this subtitle 
        shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or 
        paroling the alien into the United States is necessary--
                    (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
                Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success on June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
                Nations and the United States, or other applicable 
                international obligations of the United States; or
                    (B) to carry out or assist law enforcement activity 
                of the United States.
            (3) Humanitarian exemption.--The President may not impose 
        sanctions under this subtitle with respect to any person for 
        conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of 
        agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices or 
        for the provision of humanitarian assistance.

[[Page 138 STAT. 938]]

SEC. 3105. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2355.>> TREATMENT OF FORFEITED PROPERTY 
                          OF TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Transfer of Forfeited Property to Forfeiture Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Any covered forfeited property shall be 
        deposited into the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund 
        established under section 9705 of title 31, United States Code, 
        or the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund established 
        under section 524(c) of title 28, United States Code.
            (2) Report required.-- <<NOTE: Time period.>> Not later than 
        180 days after the date of the enactment of this division, and 
        every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on any deposits 
        made under paragraph (1) during the 180-day period preceding 
        submission of the report.
            (3) Covered forfeited property defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``covered forfeited property'' means property--
                    (A) forfeited to the United States under chapter 46 
                or section 1963 of title 18, United States Code; and
                    (B) that belonged to or was possessed by an 
                individual affiliated with or connected to a 
                transnational criminal organization subject to sanctions 
                under--
                          (i) this subtitle;
                          (ii) the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 
                      2301 et seq.); or
                          (iii) Executive Order 14059 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
                      note; relating to imposing sanctions on foreign 
                      persons involved in the global illicit drug 
                      trade).

    (b) Blocked Assets Under Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.--
Nothing in this subtitle may be construed to affect the treatment of 
blocked assets of a terrorist party described in section 201(a) of the 
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (28 U.S.C. 1610 note).

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 3111. TEN-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF 
                          SANCTIONS.

    (a) International Emergency Economic Powers Act.--Section 206 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Statute of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Time for commencing proceedings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An action, suit, or proceeding 
                for the enforcement of any civil fine, penalty, or 
                forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, under this section 
                shall not be entertained unless commenced within 10 
                years after the latest date of the violation upon which 
                the civil fine, penalty, or forfeiture is based.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Notice.>> Commencement.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the commencement of an action, suit, 
                or proceeding includes the issuance of a pre-penalty 
                notice or finding of violation.
            ``(2) Time for indictment.--No person shall be prosecuted, 
        tried, or punished for any offense under subsection (c) unless 
        the indictment is found or the information is instituted within

[[Page 138 STAT. 939]]

        10 years after the latest date of the violation upon which the 
        indictment or information is based.''.

    (b) Trading With the Enemy Act.--Section 16 of the Trading with the 
Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 4315) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) Statute of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Time for commencing proceedings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An action, suit, or proceeding 
                for the enforcement of any civil fine, penalty, or 
                forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, under this section 
                shall not be entertained unless commenced within 10 
                years after the latest date of the violation upon which 
                the civil fine, penalty, or forfeiture is based.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Notice.>> Commencement.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the commencement of an action, suit, 
                or proceeding includes the issuance of a pre-penalty 
                notice or finding of violation.
            ``(2) Time for indictment.--No person shall be prosecuted, 
        tried, or punished for any offense under subsection (a) unless 
        the indictment is found or the information is instituted within 
        10 years after the latest date of the violation upon which the 
        indictment or information is based.''.
SEC. 3112. CLASSIFIED REPORT AND BRIEFING ON STAFFING OF OFFICE OF 
                          FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall 
provide to the appropriate congressional committees a classified report 
and briefing on the staffing of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, 
disaggregated by staffing dedicated to each sanctions program and each 
country or issue.
SEC. 3113. <<NOTE: Classified 
                          information. Briefing. Assessment.>> REPO
                          RT ON DRUG TRANSPORTATION ROUTES AND USE 
                          OF VESSELS WITH MISLABELED CARGO.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the Secretary of the Treasury, in conjunction with the heads 
of other relevant Federal agencies, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a classified report and briefing on efforts to 
target drug transportation routes and modalities, including an 
assessment of the prevalence of false cargo labeling and shipment of 
precursor chemicals without accurate tracking of the customers 
purchasing the chemicals.
SEC. 3114. <<NOTE: Classified information. Briefing.>> REPORT ON 
                          ACTIONS OF PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
                          WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS INVOLVED IN 
                          FENTANYL SUPPLY CHAIN.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the Secretary of the Treasury, in conjunction with the heads 
of other relevant Federal agencies, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a classified report and briefing on actions 
taken by the Government of the People's Republic of China with respect 
to persons involved in the shipment of fentanyl, fentanyl analogues, 
fentanyl precursors, precursors for fentanyl analogues, and equipment 
for the manufacturing of fentanyl and fentanyl-laced counterfeit pills.

[[Page 138 STAT. 940]]

                 TITLE II--ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING MATTERS

SEC. 3201. DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL TRANSACTIONS OF 
                          SANCTIONED PERSONS AS OF PRIMARY MONEY 
                          LAUNDERING CONCERN.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 
2311 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 7213 the following:
``SEC. 7213A. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2313a.>> DESIGNATION OF TRANSACTIONS 
                            OF SANCTIONED PERSONS AS OF PRIMARY 
                            MONEY LAUNDERING CONCERN.

    ``(a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Determination. Regulations.>> If the 
Secretary of the Treasury determines that reasonable grounds exist for 
concluding that 1 or more financial institutions operating outside of 
the United States, 1 or more classes of transactions within, or 
involving, a jurisdiction outside of the United States, or 1 or more 
types of accounts within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the 
United States, is of primary money laundering concern in connection with 
illicit opioid trafficking, the Secretary of the Treasury may, by order, 
regulation, or otherwise as permitted by law--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Requirement.>> require domestic financial 
        institutions and domestic financial agencies to take 1 or more 
        of the special measures provided for in section 9714(a)(1) of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (Public Law 116-283; 31 U.S.C. 5318A note); or
            ``(2) prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain 
        transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary) by any 
        domestic financial institution or domestic financial agency, if 
        such transmittal of funds involves any such institution, class 
        of transaction, or type of accounts.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Courts. Submission.>> Classified Information.--In any 
judicial review of a finding of the existence of a primary money 
laundering concern, or of the requirement for 1 or more special measures 
with respect to a primary money laundering concern made under this 
section, if the designation or imposition, or both, were based on 
classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified 
Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)), such information may be 
submitted by the Secretary to the reviewing court ex parte and in 
camera. This subsection does not confer or imply any right to judicial 
review of any finding made or any requirement imposed under this 
section.

    ``(c) Availability of Information.-- <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The 
exemptions from, and prohibitions on, search and disclosure referred to 
in section 9714(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 31 U.S.C. 5318A note) shall apply to any 
report or record of report filed pursuant to a requirement imposed under 
subsection (a). For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States 
Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in 
subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section.

    ``(d) Penalties.-- <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The penalties referred 
to in section 9714(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 31 U.S.C. 5318A note) shall apply 
to violations of any order, regulation, special measure, or other 
requirement imposed under subsection (a), in the same manner and to the 
same extent as described in such section 9714(d).

[[Page 138 STAT. 941]]

    ``(e) Injunctions.--The Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil 
action to enjoin a violation of any order, regulation, special measure, 
or other requirement imposed under subsection (a) in the same manner and 
to the same extent as described in section 9714(e) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 31 
U.S.C. 5318A note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7213 the 
following:

``Sec. 7213A. Designation of transactions of sanctioned persons as of 
           primary money laundering concern.''.

SEC. 3202. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2361.>> TREATMENT OF TRANSNATIONAL 
                          CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS IN SUSPICIOUS 
                          TRANSACTIONS REPORTS OF THE FINANCIAL 
                          CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK.

    (a) Filing Instructions.-- <<NOTE: Guidance.>> Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this division, the Director of 
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network shall issue guidance or 
instructions to United States financial institutions for filing reports 
on suspicious transactions required under section 1010.320 of title 31, 
Code of Federal Regulations, related to suspected fentanyl trafficking 
by transnational criminal organizations.

    (b) Prioritization of Reports Relating to Fentanyl Trafficking or 
Transnational Criminal Organizations.--The Director shall prioritize 
research into reports described in subsection (a) that indicate a 
connection to trafficking of fentanyl or related synthetic opioids or 
financing of suspected transnational criminal organizations.
SEC. 3203. REPORT ON TRADE-BASED MONEY LAUNDERING IN TRADE WITH 
                          MEXICO, THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, 
                          AND BURMA.

    (a) In General.--In the first update to the national strategy for 
combating the financing of terrorism and related forms of illicit 
finance submitted to Congress after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the Secretary of the Treasury shall include a report on trade-
based money laundering originating in Mexico or the People's Republic of 
China and involving Burma.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``national strategy for 
combating the financing of terrorism and related forms of illicit 
finance'' means the national strategy for combating the financing of 
terrorism and related forms of illicit finance required under section 
261 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act 
(Public Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 934), as amended by section 6506 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-
81; 135 Stat. 2428).

          TITLE III--EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS

SEC. 3301. <<NOTE: 21 USC 2371.>> EXCEPTION RELATING TO 
                          IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

    (a) In General.--The authority or a requirement to block and 
prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property 
under this division shall not include the authority or a requirement to 
impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

[[Page 138 STAT. 942]]

    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured 
product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding 
technical data.

DIVISION F-- <<NOTE: Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for 
  Ukrainians Act.>> REBUILDING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY AND OPPORTUNITY FOR 
UKRAINIANS ACT

                                 TITLE I

SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF 
                    CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This division may be cited as the ``Rebuilding 
Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act'' or the ``REPO 
for Ukrainians Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

                                 TITLE I

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

            TITLE II--REPURPOSING OF RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS

Sec. 101. Findings; sense of Congress.
Sec. 102. Sense of Congress regarding importance of the Russian 
           Federation providing compensation to Ukraine.
Sec. 103. Prohibition on release of blocked Russian sovereign assets.
Sec. 104. Authority to ensure compensation to Ukraine using seized 
           Russian sovereign assets and Russian aggressor state 
           sovereign assets.
Sec. 105. International mechanism to use Russian sovereign assets and 
           Russian aggressor state sovereign assets to provide for the 
           reconstruction of Ukraine.
Sec. 106. Report on use of transferred Russian sovereign assets for 
           reconstruction.
Sec. 107. Assessment by Secretary of State and Administrator of USAID on 
           reconstruction and rebuilding needs of Ukraine.
Sec. 108. Extensions.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Russian aggressor state.--The term ``Russian aggressor 
        state'' means--
                    (A) the Russian Federation; and
                    
                (B) <<NOTE: Belarus. President. Determination.>> Belarus,
                 if the President determines Belarus has engaged in an 
                act of war against Ukraine related to Russia's ongoing 
                February 24, 2022, invasion of Ukraine.
            (2) Russian aggressor state sovereign asset.-- 
        <<NOTE: President. Determination.>> The term ``Russian aggressor 
        state sovereign asset'' means any Russian sovereign assets or 
        any funds or property of another Russian aggressor state 
        determined by the President to be of the same sovereign 
        character as the assets described in paragraph (7).
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives.

[[Page 138 STAT. 943]]

            (4) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means a financial institution specified in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), 
        (M), or (Z) of section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States 
        Code.
            (5) G7.--The term ``G7'' means the countries that are member 
        of the informal Group of 7, including Canada, France, Germany, 
        Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
            (6) Russian sovereign asset.--The term ``Russian sovereign 
        asset'' means any of the following:
                    (A) Funds and other property of--
                          (i) the Central Bank of the Russian 
                      Federation;
                          (ii) the Russian National Wealth Fund; or
                          (iii) the Ministry of Finance of the Russian 
                      Federation.
                    (B) Any other funds or other property that are owned 
                by the Government of the Russian Federation, including 
                by any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of that 
                government.
            (7) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, 
        American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.
            (8) United states financial institution.--The term ``United 
        States financial institution'' means a financial institution 
        organized under the laws of the United States or of any 
        jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign 
        branch of such an institution.
            (9) Seize or seizure.--The term ``seize'' or ``seizure'' 
        means confiscation of all right, title, and interest whatsoever 
        in a Russian sovereign asset or a Russian aggressor state 
        sovereign asset and vesting of the same in the United States.

            TITLE II--REPURPOSING OF RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  FINDINGS; SENSE OF 
                        CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On February 24, 2022, the Government of the Russian 
        Federation violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
        Ukraine by engaging in a premeditated, second illegal invasion 
        of Ukraine.
            (2) The international community has condemned the illegal 
        invasions of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, as well as the 
        commission of the crime of aggression, war crimes, crimes 
        against humanity, and genocide by officials of the Russian 
        Federation, including through the deliberate targeting of 
        civilians and civilian infrastructure, the forcible transfer of 
        children, and the commission of sexual violence.
            (3) The leaders of the G7 have called the Russian 
        Federation's ``unprovoked and completely unjustified attack on 
        the democratic state of Ukraine'' a ``serious violation of 
        international law and a grave breach of the United Nations 
        Charter and all commitments Russia entered in the Helsinki Final

[[Page 138 STAT. 944]]

        Act and the Charter of Paris and its commitments in the Budapest 
        Memorandum''.
            (4) On March 2, 2022, the United Nations General Assembly 
        adopted Resolution ES-11/1, entitled ``Aggression against 
        Ukraine'', by a vote of 141 to 5. That resolution ``deplore[d] 
        in the strongest terms the aggression by the Russian Federation 
        against Ukraine in violation of Article 2(4) of the [United 
        Nations] Charter'' and demanded that the Russian Federation 
        ``immediately cease its use of force against Ukraine'' and 
        ``immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw all of 
        its military forces from the territory of Ukraine within its 
        internationally recognized borders''.
            (5) On March 16, 2022, the International Court of Justice 
        issued a provisional measures order requiring the Russian 
        Federation to ``immediately suspend the military operations that 
        it commenced on 24 February 2022 in the territory of Ukraine'' 
        and, in this regard, observed that ``orders on provisional 
        measures . . . have binding effect''.
            (6) On November 14, 2022, the United Nations General 
        Assembly adopted a resolution--
                    (A) recognizing that the Russian Federation has 
                committed a serious breach of the most fundamental norms 
                of international law and its gross and systematic 
                refusal to obey its obligations has affected the entire 
                international community;
                    (B) recognizing the need for the establishment, in 
                cooperation with Ukraine, of an international mechanism 
                for compensation for financially assessable damages 
                caused by the Russian Federation's internationally 
                wrongful acts; and
                    (C) recommending ``the creation . . . of an 
                international register of damage to serve as a record . 
                . . of evidence and claims information on damage, loss 
                or injury to all natural and legal persons concerned, as 
                well as the State of Ukraine, caused by internationally 
                wrongful acts of the Russian Federation in or against 
                Ukraine . . . .''.
            (7) The Russian Federation bears international legal 
        responsibility for its aggression against Ukraine and, under 
        international law, must cease its internationally wrongful acts. 
        Because of this breach of the prohibition on aggression under 
        international law, the United States is legally entitled to take 
        counter measures that are proportionate and aimed at inducing 
        the Russian Federation to comply with its international 
        obligations.
            (8) Approximately $300,000,000,000 of Russian sovereign 
        assets have been immobilized worldwide. Only a small fraction of 
        those assets, 1 to 2 percent, or between $4,000,000,000 and 
        $5,000,000,000, are reportedly subject to the jurisdiction of 
        the United States.
            (9) The vast majority of immobilized Russian sovereign 
        assets, approximately $190,000,000,000, are reportedly subject 
        to the jurisdiction of Belgium. The Government of Belgium has 
        publicly indicated that any action by that Government regarding 
        those assets would be predicated on support by the G7.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, having 
committed an act of aggression, as recognized by the United

[[Page 138 STAT. 945]]

Nations General Assembly on March 2, 2022, the Russian Federation is to 
be considered as an aggressor state. The extreme illegal actions taken 
by the Russian Federation, including an act of aggression, present a 
unique situation, justifying the establishment of a legal authority for 
the United States Government and other countries to confiscate Russian 
sovereign assets in their respective jurisdictions.
SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING 
                        IMPORTANCE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
                        PROVIDING COMPENSATION TO UKRAINE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Russian Federation bears responsibility for the 
        financial burden of the reconstruction of Ukraine and for 
        countless other costs associated with the illegal invasion of 
        Ukraine by the Russian Federation that began on February 24, 
        2022;
            (2) the most effective ways to provide compensation for the 
        damages caused by the Russian Federation's internationally 
        wrongful acts should be assessed by an international mechanism 
        charged with determining compensation and providing assistance 
        to Ukraine;
            (3) at least since November 2022 the Russian Federation has 
        been on notice of its opportunity to comply with its 
        international obligations, including to make full compensation 
        for injury, or, by agreement with Ukraine, to authorize an 
        international mechanism to resolve issues regarding compensation 
        to Ukraine;
            (4) the Russian Federation can, by negotiated agreement, 
        participate in any international process to assess the damages 
        caused by the Russian Federation's internationally wrongful acts 
        and make funds available to compensate for these damages, and if 
        it fails to do so, the United States and other countries should 
        explore all avenues for ensuring compensation to Ukraine;
            (5) the President should lead robust engagement on all 
        bilateral and multilateral aspects of the response by the United 
        States to acts by the Russian Federation that undermine the 
        sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, including on 
        any policy coordination and alignment regarding the repurposing 
        or ordered transfer of Russian sovereign assets in the context 
        of determining compensation and providing assistance to Ukraine;
            (6) as part of the robust engagement on bilateral and 
        multilateral responses to acts by the Russian Federation that 
        undermine the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, 
        the President should endeavor to facilitate creation of, and 
        United States participation in, an international mechanism 
        regarding the repurposing or seizure of sovereign assets of the 
        Russian Federation for the benefit of Ukraine.
            (7) the repurposing of Russian sovereign assets is in the 
        national interests of the United States and consistent with 
        United States and international law;
            (8) the United States should work with international allies 
        and partners on the repurposing of Russian sovereign assets as 
        part of a coordinated, multilateral effort, including with G7 
        countries and other countries in which Russian sovereign assets 
        are located; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 946]]

            (9) any effort by the United States to confiscate and 
        repurpose Russian sovereign assets should be undertaken 
        alongside international allies and partners as part of a 
        coordinated, multilateral effort, including with G7 countries, 
        the European Union, Australia, and other countries in which 
        Russian sovereign assets are located.
SEC. 103. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 9521 note.>> PROHIBITION ON 
                        RELEASE OF BLOCKED RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN 
                        ASSETS.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Certification.>> No Russian sovereign 
asset that is blocked or effectively immobilized by the Department of 
the Treasury before the date specified in section 104(j) may be released 
or mobilized, except as otherwise authorized by this division, until the 
date on which the President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that--
            (1) hostilities between the Russian Federation and Ukraine 
        have ceased; and
            (2)(A) full compensation has been made to Ukraine for harms 
        resulting from the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian 
        Federation; or
            (B) the Russian Federation is participating in a bona fide 
        international mechanism that, by agreement, will discharge the 
        obligations of the Russian Federation to compensate Ukraine for 
        all amounts determined to be owed to Ukraine.

    (b) Notification.--Not later than 30 days before the release or 
mobilization of a Russian sovereign asset that is blocked or effectively 
immobilized by the Department of the Treasury, the President shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees--
            (1) a notification of the decision to take the action that 
        releases or mobilizes the asset; and
            (2) a justification in writing for such decision.

    (c) Joint Resolution of Disapproval.--
            (1) In general.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No Russian sovereign 
        asset that is blocked or effectively immobilized by the 
        Department of the Treasury may be released or mobilized if, 
        within 30 days of receipt of the notification and justification 
        required under subsection (b), a joint resolution is enacted 
        into law prohibiting the proposed release or mobilization.
            (2) Expedited procedures.--Any joint resolution described in 
        paragraph (1) introduced in either House of Congress shall be 
        considered in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) 
        of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control 
        Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 765), except that any 
        such resolution shall be subject to germane 
        amendments. <<NOTE: Time period. Determination.>> If such a 
        joint resolution should be vetoed by the President, the time for 
        debate in consideration of the veto message on such measure 
        shall be limited to 20 hours in the Senate and in the House of 
        Representatives shall be determined in accordance with the Rules 
        of the House.

    (d) Cooperation on Prohibition of Release of Certain Russian 
Sovereign Assets.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the President may 
take such actions as may be necessary to seek to obtain an agreement or 
arrangement to which the Government of Ukraine is party that discharges 
the Russian Federation from further obligations to compensate Ukraine.

[[Page 138 STAT. 947]]

SEC. 104. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 9521 note.>> AUTHORITY TO 
                        ENSURE COMPENSATION TO UKRAINE USING 
                        SEIZED RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS AND 
                        RUSSIAN AGGRESSOR STATE SOVEREIGN ASSETS.

    (a) Reporting on Russian Assets.--
            (1) Notice required.-- <<NOTE: Regulations.>> Not later than 
        90 days after the date of the enactment of this division, the 
        President shall, by means of such instructions or regulations as 
        the President may prescribe, require any financial institution 
        at which Russian sovereign assets are located, and that knows or 
        should know of such assets, to provide notice of such assets, 
        including relevant information required under section 
        501.603(b)(ii) of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
        successor regulations), to the Secretary of the Treasury not 
        later than 10 days after detection of such assets.
            (2) Report required.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this division, and annually 
                thereafter for 3 years, the President shall submit to 
                the appropriate congressional committees a report 
                detailing the status of Russian sovereign assets with 
                respect to which notice has been provided to the 
                Secretary of the Treasury under paragraph (1).
                    (B) Form.--The report required by subparagraph (A) 
                shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include 
                a classified annex.

    (b) Seizure or Transfer of Assets.--
            (1) Seizure of russian aggressor state sovereign assets.-- 
        <<NOTE: Effective date.>> On and after the date that is 30 days 
        after the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
        committees the certification described in subsection (c), the 
        President may seize, confiscate, transfer, or vest any Russian 
        aggressor state sovereign assets, in whole or in part, and 
        including any interest or interests in such assets, subject to 
        the jurisdiction of the United States for the purpose of 
        transferring those funds to the Ukraine Support Fund established 
        under subsection (d).
            (2) Vesting.--For funds confiscated under paragraph (1), all 
        right, title, and interest shall vest in the United States 
        Government, provided that no use of those funds other than the 
        use of those funds consistent with subsection (f) shall be 
        permitted.
            (3) Liquidation and deposit.--The President shall--
                    (A) deposit any funds seized, transferred, or 
                confiscated under paragraph (1) into the Ukraine Support 
                Fund established under subsection (d);
                    (B) liquidate or sell any other property seized, 
                transferred, or confiscated under paragraph (1) and 
                deposit the funds resulting from such liquidation or 
                sale into the Ukraine Support Fund; and
                    (C) make all such funds available for the purposes 
                described in subsection (f).
            (4) Method of seizure, transfer, or confiscation.--The 
        President may seize, transfer, confiscate or vest Russian 
        aggressor state sovereign assets under paragraph (1) through 
        instructions or licenses or in such other manner as the 
        President determines appropriate.

[[Page 138 STAT. 948]]

    (c) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection, 
with respect to Russian aggressor state sovereign assets, is a 
certification that--
            (1) seizing, confiscating, transferring, or vesting Russian 
        aggressor state sovereign assets for the benefit of Ukraine is 
        in the national interests of the United States;
            (2) the President has meaningfully coordinated with G7 
        leaders to take multilateral action with regard to any seizure, 
        confiscation, vesting, or transfer of Russian sovereign assets 
        for the benefit of Ukraine; and
            (3) either--
                    (A) the President has received an official and 
                legitimate request from a properly constituted 
                international mechanism that includes the participation 
                of the Government of Ukraine and the United States and 
                that has been established for the purpose of, or 
                otherwise tasked with, compensating Ukraine for damages 
                arising or resulting from the internationally wrongful 
                acts of the Russian Federation regarding the repurposing 
                of sovereign assets of the Russian Federation; or
                    (B) either--
                          (i) the Russian Federation has not ceased its 
                      unlawful aggression against Ukraine; or
                          (ii) the Russian Federation has ceased its 
                      unlawful aggression against Ukraine, but--
                                    (I) has not provided full 
                                compensation to Ukraine for harms 
                                resulting from the internationally 
                                wrongful acts of the Russian Federation; 
                                and
                                    (II) is not participating in a bona 
                                fide process to provide full 
                                compensation to Ukraine for harms 
                                resulting from Russian aggression.

    (d) Establishment of the Ukraine Support Fund.--
            (1) Ukraine support fund.--The President shall establish an 
        account, to be known as the ``Ukraine Support Fund'', to consist 
        of any funds with respect to which a seizure is ordered pursuant 
        to subsection (b).
            (2) Use of funds.--The funds in the accounts established 
        under paragraph (1) shall be available to be used only as 
        specified in subsection (f).

    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to provide the President with the authority to seize, transfer, 
confiscate, or vest title to foreign sovereign assets that are not 
Russian aggressor state sovereign assets in the United States or 
transfer any foreign sovereign assets to any recipient for any use other 
than the uses described in this division.
    (f) Further Transfer and Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), Funds in 
        the Ukraine Support Fund shall be available to the Secretary of 
        State, in consultation with the Administrator of the United 
        States Agency for International Development, for the purpose of 
        providing assistance to Ukraine for the damage resulting from 
        the unlawful invasion by the Russian Federation that began on 
        February 24, 2022.
            (2) Specific permissible uses.--Subject to paragraph (3), 
        the following are permissible uses of the funds in the Ukraine 
        Support Fund pursuant to paragraph (1):

[[Page 138 STAT. 949]]

                    (A) Making contributions to an international body, 
                fund, or mechanism established consistent with section 
                105(a) that is charged with determining and 
                administering compensation or providing assistance to 
                Ukraine.
                    (B) Supporting reconstruction, rebuilding, and 
                recovery efforts in Ukraine.
                    (C) Providing economic and humanitarian assistance 
                to the people of Ukraine.
            (3) Notification.--
                    (A) In general.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Secretary 
                of State shall notify the appropriate congressional 
                committees not fewer than 15 days before providing any 
                funds from the Ukraine Support Fund to any other account 
                for the purposes described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Elements.--A notification under subparagraph (A) 
                with respect to the transfer of funds to another account 
                pursuant to paragraph (1) shall specify--
                          (i) the amount of funds to be provided;
                          (ii) the specific purpose for which such funds 
                      are provided; and
                          (iii) the recipient of those funds.

    (g) Limitation on Transfer of Funds.-- <<NOTE: Certification.>> No 
funds may be transferred or otherwise expended from the Ukraine Support 
Fund pursuant to subsection (f) unless the President certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) <<NOTE: Plan.>> a plan exists to ensure transparency and 
        accountability for all funds transferred to and from any account 
        receiving the funds; and
            (2) the President has transmitted the plan required under 
        paragraph (1) to the appropriate congressional committees in 
        writing.

    (h) Joint Resolution of Disapproval.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No funds 
may be transferred pursuant to subsection (f) if, within 15 days of 
receipt of the notification required under subsection (f)(3), a joint 
resolution is enacted into law prohibiting such transfer.

    (i) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this division, and not less frequently than 
every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report that includes the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Records.>> An accounting of funds in the Ukraine 
        Support Fund.
            (2) Any information regarding the disposition of funds in 
        any account to which funds have been transferred pursuant to 
        subsection (f) that has been transmitted to the President by the 
        institution housing said account during the period covered by 
        the report.
            (3) A description of United States multilateral and 
        bilateral diplomatic engagement with allies and partners of the 
        United States that also have immobilized Russian sovereign 
        assets to compensate for damages caused by the Russian 
        Federation's internationally wrongful acts during the period 
        covered by the report.
            (4) <<NOTE: Outline.>> An outline of steps taken to carry 
        out the establishment of the international mechanism described 
        by section 105(a) during the period covered by the report.

    (j) Exception for United States Obligations Under Treaties.--The 
authorities provided by this section may not be exercised

[[Page 138 STAT. 950]]

in a manner inconsistent with the obligations of the United States 
under--
            (1) the Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done at Vienna 
        April 18, 1961, and entered into force April 24, 1964 (23 UST 
        3227);
            (2) the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna 
        April 24, 1963, and entered into force on March 19, 1967 (21 UST 
        77);
            (3) the Agreement Regarding the Headquarters of the United 
        Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
        force November 21, 1947 (TIAS 1676); or
            (4) any other international agreement to which the United 
        States is a state party on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this division.

    (k) Judicial Review.--
            (1) Exclusiveness of remedy.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, any action taken under this section shall not 
        be subject to judicial review, except as provided in this 
        subsection.
            (2) Limitations for filing claims.--A claim may only be 
        brought with respect to an action under this section--
                    (A) that alleges that the action will deny rights 
                under the Constitution of the United States; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> if the claim is brought not 
                later than 60 days after the date of such action.
            (3) Jurisdiction.--
                    (A) In general.--A claim under paragraph (2) of this 
                subsection shall be barred unless a complaint is filed 
                prior to the expiration of such time limits in the 
                United States District Court for the District of 
                Columbia.
                    (B) Appeal.-- <<NOTE: Notice. Deadline.>> An appeal 
                of an order of the United States District Court for the 
                District of Columbia issued pursuant to a claim brought 
                under this subsection shall be taken by a notice of 
                appeal filed with the United States Court of Appeals for 
                the District of Columbia Circuit not later than 10 days 
                after the date on which the order is entered.
                    (C) Expedited consideration.--It shall be the duty 
                of the United States District Court for the District of 
                Columbia and the United States Court of Appeals for the 
                District of Columbia Circuit to advance on the docket 
                and to expedite to the greatest possible extent the 
                disposition of any claim brought under this subsection.

    (l) Sunset.--The authorities conferred under this section shall 
terminate on the earlier of--
            (1) the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this division; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination. Certification.>> the date that is 
        120 days after the date on which the President determines and 
        certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
                    (A) the Russian Federation has reached an agreement 
                relating to the respective withdrawal of Russian forces 
                and cessation of military hostilities that is accepted 
                by the free and independent Government of Ukraine; and
                    (B)(i) full compensation has been made to Ukraine 
                for harms resulting from the invasion of Ukraine by the 
                Russian Federation;

[[Page 138 STAT. 951]]

                    (ii) the Russian Federation is participating in a 
                bona fide international mechanism that, by agreement, 
                will discharge the obligations of the Russian Federation 
                to compensate Ukraine for all amounts determined to be 
                owed to Ukraine; or
                    (iii) the Russian Federation's obligation to 
                compensate Ukraine for the damage caused by the Russian 
                Federation's aggression has been resolved pursuant to an 
                agreement between the Russian Federation and the 
                Government of Ukraine.
SEC. 105. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 9521 note.>> INTERNATIONAL 
                        MECHANISM TO USE RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS 
                        AND RUSSIAN AGGRESSOR STATE SOVEREIGN 
                        ASSETS TO PROVIDE FOR THE RECONSTRUCTION 
                        OF UKRAINE.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Determination.>> The President shall take 
such actions as the President determines appropriate to coordinate with 
the G7, the European Union, Australia, and other partners and allies of 
the United States regarding the disposition of immobilized Russian 
aggressor state sovereign assets, including seeking to establish an 
international mechanism with foreign partners, including Ukraine, the 
G7, the European Union, Australia, and other partners and allies of the 
United States, for the purpose of assisting Ukraine, which may include 
the establishment of an international fund to be known as the ``Ukraine 
Compensation Fund'', that may receive and use assets in the Ukraine 
Support Fund established under section 104(c) and contributions from 
foreign partners that have also frozen or seized Russian aggressor state 
sovereign assets to assist Ukraine, including by--
            (1) <<NOTE: Records. Assessment.>> supporting a register of 
        damage to serve as a record of evidence and for assessment of 
        the financially assessable damages to Ukraine resulting from the 
        invasions of Ukraine by the Russian Federation and operations or 
        actions in support thereof;
            (2) establishing a mechanism to compensate Ukraine for 
        damages caused by Russia's internationally wrongful acts 
        connected with the invasions of Ukraine;
            (3) ensuring distribution of those assets or the proceeds of 
        those assets based on determinations under that mechanism; and
            (4) taking such other actions as may be necessary to carry 
        out this section.

    (b) Authorization for Deposit in the Ukraine Compensation Fund.--
Upon the President reaching an agreement or arrangement to establish a 
common international mechanism pursuant to subsection (a) or at any time 
thereafter, the Secretary of State may, pursuant to the authority 
conferred by and subject to the limitations described in section 104(f) 
and subject to the limitations described in subsection (e), transfer 
funds from the Ukraine Support Fund established under section 104(d) to 
a fund or mechanism established consistent with subsection (a).
    (c) Notification.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The President shall notify 
the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after 
entering into any new bilateral or multilateral agreement or arrangement 
under subsection (a).

    (d) Good Governance.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall--

[[Page 138 STAT. 952]]

            (1) seek to ensure that any fund or mechanism established 
        consistent with subsection (a) operates in accordance with 
        established international accounting principles;
            (2) seek to ensure that any fund or mechanism established 
        consistent with subsection (a) is--
                    (A) staffed, operated, and administered in 
                accordance with established accounting rules and 
                governance procedures, including providing for payment 
                of reasonable expenses from the fund for the governance 
                and operation of the fund and the tribunal;
                    (B) operated transparently as to all funds 
                transfers, filings, and decisions; and
                    (C) <<NOTE: Audit.>> audited on a regular basis by 
                an independent auditor, in accordance with 
                internationally accepted accounting and auditing 
                standards;
            (3) <<NOTE: Public information.>> seek to ensure that any 
        audits of any fund or mechanism established consistent with 
        subsection (a) shall be made available to the public; and
            (4) <<NOTE: Review. Reports. Public information.>> ensure 
        that any audits of any fund or mechanism established consistent 
        with subsection (a) shall be reviewed and reported on by the 
        Government Accountability Office to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and the public.

    (e) Limitation on Transfer of Funds.-- <<NOTE: Certification.>> No 
funds may be transferred from the Ukraine Support Fund to a fund or 
mechanism established consistent with subsection (a) unless the 
President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) <<NOTE: Plan.>> the institution housing the fund or 
        mechanism has a plan to ensure transparency and accountability 
        for all funds transferred to and from the fund or mechanism 
        established consistent with subsection (a); and
            (2) the President has transmitted the plan required under 
        paragraph (1) to the appropriate congressional committees in 
        writing.

    (f) Joint Resolution of Disapproval.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No funds 
may be transferred from the Ukraine Support Fund to a fund or mechanism 
established consistent with subsection (a) if, within 30 days of receipt 
of the notification required under subsection (c)(2), a joint resolution 
is enacted prohibiting the transfer.

    (g) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this division, and not less frequently than every 90 days thereafter, 
the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report that includes the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Records.>> An accounting of funds in any fund or 
        mechanism established consistent with subsection (a).
            (2) Any information regarding the disposition of any such 
        fund or mechanism that has been transmitted to the President by 
        the institution housing the fund or mechanism during the period 
        covered by the report.
            (3) A description of United States multilateral and 
        bilateral diplomatic engagement with allies and partners of the 
        United States that also have immobilized Russian sovereign 
        assets to allow for compensation for Ukraine during the period 
        covered by the report.
            (4) <<NOTE: Outline.>> An outline of steps taken to carry 
        out this section during the period covered by the report.

[[Page 138 STAT. 953]]

SEC. 106. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  REPORT ON USE OF 
                        TRANSFERRED RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS FOR 
                        RECONSTRUCTION.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report that contains--
            (1) the amount and source of Russian sovereign assets 
        seized, transferred, or confiscated pursuant to section 104(b);
            (2) the amount and source of funds deposited into the 
        Ukraine Support Fund under section 104(b)(3); and
            (3) a detailed description and accounting of how such funds 
        were used to meet the purposes described in section 104(f).
SEC. 107. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  ASSESSMENT BY SECRETARY OF 
                        STATE AND ADMINISTRATOR OF USAID ON 
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND REBUILDING NEEDS OF 
                        UKRAINE.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this division, the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees an assessment of the most pressing needs of Ukraine for 
reconstruction, rebuilding, and humanitarian aid.

    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Estimate.>> An estimate of the rebuilding and 
        reconstruction needs of Ukraine, as of the date of the 
        assessment, resulting from the unlawful invasion of Ukraine by 
        the Russian Federation, including--
                    (A) a description of the sources and methods for the 
                estimate; and
                    (B) an identification of the locations or regions in 
                Ukraine with the most pressing needs.
            (2) <<NOTE: Estimate.>> An estimate of the humanitarian 
        needs, as of the date of the assessment, of the people of 
        Ukraine, including Ukrainians residing inside the 
        internationally recognized borders of Ukraine or outside those 
        borders, resulting from the unlawful invasion of Ukraine by the 
        Russian Federation.
            (3) An assessment of the extent to which the needs described 
        in paragraphs (1) and (2) have been met or funded, by any 
        source, as of the date of the assessment.
            (4) <<NOTE: Plan.>> A plan to engage in robust multilateral 
        and bilateral diplomacy to ensure that allies and partners of 
        the United States, particularly in the European Union as Ukraine 
        seeks accession to the European Union, increase their commitment 
        to Ukraine's reconstruction.
            (5) An identification of which such needs should be 
        prioritized, including any assessment or request by the 
        Government of Ukraine with respect to the prioritization of such 
        needs.
SEC. 108. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9521 note.>>  EXTENSIONS.

    Section 5(a) of the Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-441; 132 Stat. 5587) is amended, in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``six years'' and inserting 
``12 years''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 954]]

                        DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 1. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1701 note.>> REPORT AND 
                    IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS TO HARMONIZE WITH 
                    ALLIED SANCTIONS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this division, the President shall submit to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate a report identifying--
            (1) each foreign person currently subject to--
                    (A) sanctions issued by the European Union pursuant 
                to European Union Council Regulation No. 269/2014 of 17 
                March, 2014, as amended; or
                    (B) sanctions issued by the United Kingdom pursuant 
                to the Russia (Sanctions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019, as 
                amended; and
            (2) each such foreign person that also meets the criteria 
        for imposition of sanctions by the United States pursuant to--
                    (A) the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability 
                Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.);
                    (B) Executive Order 14024 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note, 
                relating to blocking property with respect to specified 
                harmful foreign activities of the Government of the 
                Russian Federation), as amended;
                    (C) Executive Order 14068 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note, 
                relating to prohibiting certain imports, exports, and 
                new investment with respect to continued Russian 
                Federation aggression), as amended; or
                    (D) Executive Order 14071 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note, 
                relating to prohibiting new investment in and certain 
                services to the Russian Federation in response to 
                continued Russian Federation aggression), as amended.

    (b) Imposition of Sanctions.--The President may impose the sanctions 
authorized by the applicable provision of law listed in subsection 
(a)(2) with respect to each foreign person identified in the report 
required under subsection (a)(1) who is not already subject to sanctions 
under United States law pursuant to one or more statutory sanctions 
authorities as of the date of the submission of such report.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 10 USC 113 note.>> INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON 
                    EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN ANNUAL 
                    CHINA MILITARY POWER REPORT.

    (a) In General.--As part of each annual report submitted under 
section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000 (Public Law 106-65; 10 U.S.C. 113 note)(commonly referred to as the 
``China Military Power report''), the Secretary of Defense and Secretary 
of State, in consultation with the heads of such other Federal 
departments and agencies as the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of 
State may determine appropriate, shall include a component on emerging 
technological developments involving the People's Republic of China.
    (b) Matters.-- <<NOTE: Assessment.>> Each report component referred 
to in subsection (a) shall include an identification and assessment of 
at least five fields of critical or emerging technologies in which the 
People's Liberation Army is invested, or for which there are Military-
Civil

[[Page 138 STAT. 955]]

Fusion Development Strategy programs of the People's Republic of China, 
including the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Summary.>> A brief summary of each such 
        identified field and its relevance to the military power and 
        national security of the People's Republic of China.
            (2) The implications for the national security of the United 
        States as a result of the leadership or dominance by the 
        People's Republic of China in each such identified field and 
        associated supply chains.
            (3) The identification of at least 10 entities domiciled in, 
        controlled by, or directed by the People's Republic of China 
        (including any subsidiaries of such entity), involved in each 
        such identified field, and an assessment of, with respect to 
        each such entity, the following:
                    (A) Whether the entity has procured components from 
                any known United States suppliers.
                    (B) Whether any United States technology imported by 
                the entity is controlled under United States 
                regulations.
                    (C) Whether United States capital is invested in the 
                entity, either through known direct investment or 
                passive investment flows.
                    (D) Whether the entity has any connection to the 
                People's Liberation Army, the Military-Civil Fusion 
                program of the People's Republic of China, or any other 
                state-sponsored initiatives of the People's Republic of 
                China to support the development of national champions.

    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (4) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

    DIVISION H-- <<NOTE: Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary 
    Controlled Applications Act.>> PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM FOREIGN 
ADVERSARY CONTROLLED APPLICATIONS ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 15 USC 9901 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Protecting Americans from 
Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 15 USC 9901 note.>>  PROHIBITION OF FOREIGN 
                    ADVERSARY CONTROLLED APPLICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Prohibition of foreign adversary controlled 
        applications.--It shall be unlawful for an entity to distribute, 
        maintain, or update (or enable the distribution, maintenance, or 
        updating of) a foreign adversary controlled application by 
        carrying out, within the land or maritime borders of the United 
        States, any of the following:

[[Page 138 STAT. 956]]

                    (A) Providing services to distribute, maintain, or 
                update such foreign adversary controlled application 
                (including any source code of such application) by means 
                of a marketplace (including an online mobile application 
                store) through which users within the land or maritime 
                borders of the United States may access, maintain, or 
                update such application.
                    (B) Providing internet hosting services to enable 
                the distribution, maintenance, or updating of such 
                foreign adversary controlled application for users 
                within the land or maritime borders of the United 
                States.
            (2) Applicability.-- <<NOTE: Effective dates.>> Subject to 
        paragraph (3), this subsection shall apply--
                    (A) in the case of an application that satisfies the 
                definition of a foreign adversary controlled application 
                pursuant to subsection (g)(3)(A), beginning on the date 
                that is 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                division; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: President. Determination.>> in the case 
                of an application that satisfies the definition of a 
                foreign adversary controlled application pursuant to 
                subsection (g)(3)(B), beginning on the date that is 270 
                days after the date of the relevant determination of the 
                President under such subsection.
            (3) Extension.-- <<NOTE: President. Certification.>> With 
        respect to a foreign adversary controlled application, the 
        President may grant a 1-time extension of not more than 90 days 
        with respect to the date on which this subsection would 
        otherwise apply to such application pursuant to paragraph (2), 
        if the President certifies to Congress that--
                    (A) a path to executing a qualified divestiture has 
                been identified with respect to such application;
                    (B) evidence of significant progress toward 
                executing such qualified divestiture has been produced 
                with respect to such application; and
                    (C) there are in place the relevant binding legal 
                agreements to enable execution of such qualified 
                divestiture during the period of such extension.

    (b) Data and Information Portability to Alternative Applications.-- 
<<NOTE: Applicability.>> Before the date on which a prohibition under 
subsection (a) applies to a foreign adversary controlled application, 
the entity that owns or controls such application shall provide, upon 
request by a user of such application within the land or maritime 
borders of United States, to such user all the available data related to 
the account of such user with respect to such application. Such data 
shall be provided in a machine readable format and shall include any 
data maintained by such application with respect to the account of such 
user, including content (including posts, photos, and videos) and all 
other account information.

    (c) Exemptions.--
            (1) Exemptions for qualified divestitures.--Subsection (a)--
                    (A) does not apply to a foreign adversary controlled 
                application with respect to which a qualified 
                divestiture is executed before the date on which a 
                prohibition under subsection (a) would begin to apply to 
                such application; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 957]]

                    (B) shall cease to apply in the case of a foreign 
                adversary controlled application with respect to which a 
                qualified divestiture is executed after the date on 
                which a prohibition under subsection (a) applies to such 
                application.
            (2) Exemptions for certain necessary services.--Subsections 
        (a) and (b) do not apply to services provided with respect to a 
        foreign adversary controlled application that are necessary for 
        an entity to attain compliance with such subsections.

    (d) Enforcement.--
            (1) Civil penalties.--
                    (A) Foreign adversary controlled application 
                violations.--An entity that violates subsection (a) 
                shall be subject to pay a civil penalty in an amount not 
                to exceed the amount that results from multiplying 
                $5,000 by the number of users within the land or 
                maritime borders of the United States determined to have 
                accessed, maintained, or updated a foreign adversary 
                controlled application as a result of such violation.
                    (B) Data and information violations.--An entity that 
                violates subsection (b) shall be subject to pay a civil 
                penalty in an amount not to exceed the amount that 
                results from multiplying $500 by the number of users 
                within the land or maritime borders of the United States 
                affected by such violation.
            (2) Actions by attorney general.--The Attorney General--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Investigations.>> shall conduct 
                investigations related to potential violations of 
                subsection (a) or (b), and, if such an investigation 
                results in a determination that a violation has 
                occurred, the Attorney General shall pursue enforcement 
                under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Courts.>> may bring an action in an 
                appropriate district court of the United States for 
                appropriate relief, including civil penalties under 
                paragraph (1) or declaratory and injunctive relief.

    (e) Severability.--
            (1) In general.--If any provision of this section or the 
        application of this section to any person or circumstance is 
        held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect the other 
        provisions or applications of this section that can be given 
        effect without the invalid provision or application.
            (2) Subsequent determinations.--If the application of any 
        provision of this section is held invalid with respect to a 
        foreign adversary controlled application that satisfies the 
        definition of such term pursuant to subsection (g)(3)(A), such 
        invalidity shall not affect or preclude the application of the 
        same provision of this section to such foreign adversary 
        controlled application by means of a subsequent determination 
        pursuant to subsection (g)(3)(B).

    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this division may be 
construed--
            (1) to authorize the Attorney General to pursue enforcement, 
        under this section, other than enforcement of subsection (a) or 
        (b);

[[Page 138 STAT. 958]]

            (2) to authorize the Attorney General to pursue enforcement, 
        under this section, against an individual user of a foreign 
        adversary controlled application; or
            (3) except as expressly provided herein, to alter or affect 
        any other authority provided by or established under another 
        provision of Federal law.

    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Controlled by a foreign adversary.--The term 
        ``controlled by a foreign adversary'' means, with respect to a 
        covered company or other entity, that such company or other 
        entity is--
                    (A) a foreign person that is domiciled in, is 
                headquartered in, has its principal place of business 
                in, or is organized under the laws of a foreign 
                adversary country;
                    (B) an entity with respect to which a foreign person 
                or combination of foreign persons described in 
                subparagraph (A) directly or indirectly own at least a 
                20 percent stake; or
                    (C) a person subject to the direction or control of 
                a foreign person or entity described in subparagraph (A) 
                or (B).
            (2) Covered company.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered company'' means 
                an entity that operates, directly or indirectly 
                (including through a parent company, subsidiary, or 
                affiliate), a website, desktop application, mobile 
                application, or augmented or immersive technology 
                application that--
                          (i) permits a user to create an account or 
                      profile to generate, share, and view text, images, 
                      videos, real-time communications, or similar 
                      content;
                          (ii) has more than 1,000,000 monthly active 
                      users with respect to at least 2 of the 3 months 
                      preceding the date on which a relevant 
                      determination of the President is made pursuant to 
                      paragraph (3)(B);
                          (iii) enables 1 or more users to generate or 
                      distribute content that can be viewed by other 
                      users of the website, desktop application, mobile 
                      application, or augmented or immersive technology 
                      application; and
                          (iv) enables 1 or more users to view content 
                      generated by other users of the website, desktop 
                      application, mobile application, or augmented or 
                      immersive technology application.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``covered company'' does 
                not include an entity that operates a website, desktop 
                application, mobile application, or augmented or 
                immersive technology application whose primary purpose 
                is to allow users to post product reviews, business 
                reviews, or travel information and reviews.
            (3) Foreign adversary controlled application.--The term 
        ``foreign adversary controlled application'' means a website, 
        desktop application, mobile application, or augmented or 
        immersive technology application that is operated, directly or 
        indirectly (including through a parent company, subsidiary, or 
        affiliate), by--
                    (A) any of--
                          (i) ByteDance, Ltd.;

[[Page 138 STAT. 959]]

                          (ii) TikTok;
                          (iii) a subsidiary of or a successor to an 
                      entity identified in clause (i) or (ii) that is 
                      controlled by a foreign adversary; or
                          (iv) an entity owned or controlled, directly 
                      or indirectly, by an entity identified in clause 
                      (i), (ii), or (iii); or
                    (B) a covered company that--
                          (i) is controlled by a foreign adversary; and
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Determination. President.>> that 
                      is determined by the President to present a 
                      significant threat to the national security of the 
                      United States following the issuance of--
                                    (I) <<NOTE: Notice.>> a public 
                                notice proposing such determination; and
                                    (II) <<NOTE: Reports.>> a public 
                                report to Congress, submitted not less 
                                than 30 days before such determination, 
                                describing the specific national 
                                security concern involved and containing 
                                a classified annex and a description of 
                                what assets would need to be divested to 
                                execute a qualified divestiture.
            (4) Foreign adversary country.--The term ``foreign adversary 
        country'' means a country specified in section 4872(d)(2) of 
        title 10, United States Code.
            (5) Internet hosting service.--The term ``internet hosting 
        service'' means a service through which storage and computing 
        resources are provided to an individual or organization for the 
        accommodation and maintenance of 1 or more websites or online 
        services, and which may include file hosting, domain name server 
        hosting, cloud hosting, and virtual private server hosting.
            (6) Qualified divestiture.-- 
        <<NOTE: President. Determinations.>> The term ``qualified 
        divestiture'' means a divestiture or similar transaction that--
                    (A) the President determines, through an interagency 
                process, would result in the relevant foreign adversary 
                controlled application no longer being controlled by a 
                foreign adversary; and
                    (B) the President determines, through an interagency 
                process, precludes the establishment or maintenance of 
                any operational relationship between the United States 
                operations of the relevant foreign adversary controlled 
                application and any formerly affiliated entities that 
                are controlled by a foreign adversary, including any 
                cooperation with respect to the operation of a content 
                recommendation algorithm or an agreement with respect to 
                data sharing.
            (7) Source code.--The term ``source code'' means the 
        combination of text and other characters comprising the content, 
        both viewable and nonviewable, of a software application, 
        including any publishing language, programming language, 
        protocol, or functional content, as well as any successor 
        languages or protocols.
            (8) United states.--The term ``United States'' includes the 
        territories of the United States.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 15 USC 9901 note.>>  JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Right of Action.--A petition for review challenging this 
division or any action, finding, or determination under this division

[[Page 138 STAT. 960]]

may be filed only in the United States Court of Appeals for the District 
of Columbia Circuit.
    (b) Exclusive Jurisdiction.--The United States Court of Appeals for 
the District of Columbia Circuit shall have exclusive jurisdiction over 
any challenge to this division or any action, finding, or determination 
under this division.
    (c) Statute of Limitations.-- <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> A challenge may 
only be brought--
            (1) in the case of a challenge to this division, not later 
        than 165 days after the date of the enactment of this division; 
        and
            (2) in the case of a challenge to any action, finding, or 
        determination under this division, not later than 90 days after 
        the date of such action, finding, or determination.

DIVISION I-- <<NOTE: Protecting Americans' Data from Foreign Adversaries 
 Act of 2024.>> PROTECTING AMERICANS' DATA FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARIES ACT 
OF 2024
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 15 USC 9901 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Protecting Americans' Data from 
Foreign Adversaries Act of 2024''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 15 USC 9901.>> PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF 
                    PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE SENSITIVE DATA OF 
                    UNITED STATES INDIVIDUALS TO FOREIGN 
                    ADVERSARIES.

    (a) Prohibition.--It shall be unlawful for a data broker to sell, 
license, rent, trade, transfer, release, disclose, provide access to, or 
otherwise make available personally identifiable sensitive data of a 
United States individual to--
            (1) any foreign adversary country; or
            (2) any entity that is controlled by a foreign adversary.

    (b) Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission.--
            (1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices.--A violation of 
        this section shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining 
        an unfair or a deceptive act or practice under section 
        18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 
        57a(a)(1)(B)).
            (2) Powers of commission.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall enforce this 
                section in the same manner, by the same means, and with 
                the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all 
                applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade 
                Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated 
                into and made a part of this section.
                    (B) Privileges and immunities.--Any person who 
                violates this section shall be subject to the penalties 
                and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided 
                in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
            (3) Authority preserved.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any 
        other provision of law.

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Trade Commission.

[[Page 138 STAT. 961]]

            (2) Controlled by a foreign adversary.--The term 
        ``controlled by a foreign adversary'' means, with respect to an 
        individual or entity, that such individual or entity is--
                    (A) a foreign person that is domiciled in, is 
                headquartered in, has its principal place of business 
                in, or is organized under the laws of a foreign 
                adversary country;
                    (B) an entity with respect to which a foreign person 
                or combination of foreign persons described in 
                subparagraph (A) directly or indirectly own at least a 
                20 percent stake; or
                    (C) a person subject to the direction or control of 
                a foreign person or entity described in subparagraph (A) 
                or (B).
            (3) Data broker.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``data broker'' means an 
                entity that, for valuable consideration, sells, 
                licenses, rents, trades, transfers, releases, discloses, 
                provides access to, or otherwise makes available data of 
                United States individuals that the entity did not 
                collect directly from such individuals to another entity 
                that is not acting as a service provider.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``data broker'' does not 
                include an entity to the extent such entity--
                          (i) is transmitting data of a United States 
                      individual, including communications of such an 
                      individual, at the request or direction of such 
                      individual;
                          (ii) is providing, maintaining, or offering a 
                      product or service with respect to which 
                      personally identifiable sensitive data, or access 
                      to such data, is not the product or service;
                          (iii) is reporting or publishing news or 
                      information that concerns local, national, or 
                      international events or other matters of public 
                      interest;
                          (iv) is reporting, publishing, or otherwise 
                      making available news or information that is 
                      available to the general public--
                                    (I) including information from--
                                            (aa) a book, magazine, 
                                        telephone book, or online 
                                        directory;
                                            (bb) a motion picture;
                                            (cc) a television, internet, 
                                        or radio program;
                                            (dd) the news media; or
                                            (ee) an internet site that 
                                        is available to the general 
                                        public on an unrestricted basis; 
                                        and
                                    (II) not including an obscene visual 
                                depiction (as such term is used in 
                                section 1460 of title 18, United States 
                                Code); or
                          (v) is acting as a service provider.
            (4) Foreign adversary country.--The term ``foreign adversary 
        country'' means a country specified in section 4872(d)(2) of 
        title 10, United States Code.
            (5) Personally identifiable sensitive data.--The term 
        ``personally identifiable sensitive data'' means any sensitive 
        data that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable, alone

[[Page 138 STAT. 962]]

        or in combination with other data, to an individual or a device 
        that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to an 
        individual.
            (6) Precise geolocation information.--The term ``precise 
        geolocation information'' means information that--
                    (A) is derived from a device or technology of an 
                individual; and
                    (B) reveals the past or present physical location of 
                an individual or device that identifies or is linked or 
                reasonably linkable to 1 or more individuals, with 
                sufficient precision to identify street level location 
                information of an individual or device or the location 
                of an individual or device within a range of 1,850 feet 
                or less.
            (7) Sensitive data.--The term ``sensitive data'' includes 
        the following:
                    (A) A government-issued identifier, such as a Social 
                Security number, passport number, or driver's license 
                number.
                    (B) Any information that describes or reveals the 
                past, present, or future physical health, mental health, 
                disability, diagnosis, or healthcare condition or 
                treatment of an individual.
                    (C) A financial account number, debit card number, 
                credit card number, or information that describes or 
                reveals the income level or bank account balances of an 
                individual.
                    (D) Biometric information.
                    (E) Genetic information.
                    (F) Precise geolocation information.
                    (G) An individual's private communications such as 
                voicemails, emails, texts, direct messages, mail, voice 
                communications, and video communications, or information 
                identifying the parties to such communications or 
                pertaining to the transmission of such communications, 
                including telephone numbers called, telephone numbers 
                from which calls were placed, the time calls were made, 
                call duration, and location information of the parties 
                to the call.
                    (H) Account or device log-in credentials, or 
                security or access codes for an account or device.
                    (I) Information identifying the sexual behavior of 
                an individual.
                    (J) Calendar information, address book information, 
                phone or text logs, photos, audio recordings, or videos, 
                maintained for private use by an individual, regardless 
                of whether such information is stored on the 
                individual's device or is accessible from that device 
                and is backed up in a separate location.
                    (K) A photograph, film, video recording, or other 
                similar medium that shows the naked or undergarment-clad 
                private area of an individual.
                    (L) Information revealing the video content 
                requested or selected by an individual.
                    (M) Information about an individual under the age of 
                17.
                    (N) An individual's race, color, ethnicity, or 
                religion.
                    (O) Information identifying an individual's online 
                activities over time and across websites or online 
                services.

[[Page 138 STAT. 963]]

                    (P) Information that reveals the status of an 
                individual as a member of the Armed Forces.
                    (Q) Any other data that a data broker sells, 
                licenses, rents, trades, transfers, releases, discloses, 
                provides access to, or otherwise makes available to a 
                foreign adversary country, or entity that is controlled 
                by a foreign adversary, for the purpose of identifying 
                the types of data listed in subparagraphs (A) through 
                (P).
            (8) Service provider.--The term ``service provider'' means 
        an entity that--
                    (A) collects, processes, or transfers data on behalf 
                of, and at the direction of--
                          (i) an individual or entity that is not a 
                      foreign adversary country or controlled by a 
                      foreign adversary; or
                          (ii) a Federal, State, Tribal, territorial, or 
                      local government entity; and
                    (B) receives data from or on behalf of an individual 
                or entity described in subparagraph (A)(i) or a Federal, 
                State, Tribal, territorial, or local government entity.
            (9) United states individual.--The term ``United States 
        individual'' means a natural person residing in the United 
        States.

    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date that 
is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this division.

DIVISION J-- <<NOTE: Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act.>> SHIP ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum 
Act'' or the ``SHIP Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8571.>> STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to deny Iran the ability to engage in destabilizing 
        activities, support international terrorism, fund the 
        development and acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and 
        the means to deliver such weapons by limiting export of 
        petroleum and petroleum products by Iran;
            (2) to deny Iran funds to oppress and commit human rights 
        violations against the Iranian people assembling to peacefully 
        redress the Iranian regime;
            (3) to fully enforce sanctions against those entities which 
        provide support to the Iranian energy sector; and
            (4) to counter Iran's actions to finance and facilitate the 
        participation of foreign terrorist organizations in ongoing 
        conflicts and illicit activities due to the threat such actions 
        pose to the vital national interests of the United States.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 8572.>> IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS 
                    WITH RESPECT TO IRANIAN PETROLEUM.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Effective date. Determination.>> On and 
after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, and except as provided in subsection (e)(2), the President 
shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to 
each foreign person that the President determines knowingly engaged, on 
or after such date of enactment, in an activity described in subsection 
(b).

[[Page 138 STAT. 964]]

    (b) Activities Described.--A foreign person engages in an activity 
described in this subsection if the foreign person--
            (1) owns or operates a foreign port at which, on or after 
        the date of the enactment of this division, such person 
        knowingly permits to dock a vessel--
                    (A) that is included on the list of specially 
                designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by 
                the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department 
                of the Treasury for transporting Iranian crude oil or 
                petroleum products; or
                    (B) of which the operator or owner of such vessel 
                otherwise knowingly engages in a significant transaction 
                involving such vessel to transport, offload, or deal in 
                significant transactions in condensate, refined, or 
                unrefined petroleum products, or other petrochemical 
                products originating from the Islamic Republic of Iran;
            (2) owns or operates a vessel through which such owner 
        knowingly conducts a ship to ship transfer involving a 
        significant transaction of any petroleum product originating 
        from the Islamic Republic of Iran;
            (3) owns or operates a refinery through which such owner 
        knowingly engages in a significant transaction to process, 
        refine, or otherwise deal in any petroleum product originating 
        from the Islamic Republic of Iran;
            (4) is a covered family member of a foreign person described 
        in paragraph (1), (2), or (3); or
            (5) is owned or controlled by a foreign person described in 
        paragraph (1), (2), or (3), and knowingly engages in an activity 
        described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).

    (c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
with respect to a foreign person described in subsection (a) are the 
following:
            (1) Sanctions on foreign vessels.-- <<NOTE: Time 
        periods.>> Subject to such regulations as the President may 
        prescribe, the President may prohibit a vessel described in 
        subsection (b)(1)(A) or (b)(1)(B) from landing at any port in 
        the United States--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> with respect to a 
                vessel described in subsection (b)(1)(A), for a period 
                of not more than 2 years beginning on the date on which 
                the President imposes sanctions with respect to a 
                related foreign port described in subsection (b)(1)(A); 
                and
                    (B) with respect to a vessel described in subsection 
                (b)(1)(B), for a period of not more than 2 years.
            (2) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
        of the powers granted to the President under the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the 
        extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in 
        property and interests in property of the foreign person if such 
        property and interests in property are in the United States, 
        come within the United States, or are or come within the 
        possession or control of a United States person.
            (3) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described 
                in subsection (a) is--
                          (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                          (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                      documentation to enter the United States; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 965]]

                          (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or 
                      paroled into the United States or to receive any 
                      other benefit under the Immigration and 
                      Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                          (i) In general.--An alien described in 
                      subsection (a) is subject to revocation of any 
                      visa or other entry documentation regardless of 
                      when the visa or other entry documentation is or 
                      was issued.
                          (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                      clause (i) shall take effect immediately and 
                      automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry 
                      documentation that is in the alien's possession.
                    (C) Exceptions.--Sanctions under this paragraph 
                shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or 
                paroling the alien into the United States is necessary--
                          (i) to permit the United States to comply with 
                      the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the 
                      United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 
                      1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, 
                      between the United Nations and the United States, 
                      or other applicable international obligations; or
                          (ii) to carry out or assist law enforcement 
                      activity in the United States.
            (4) Penalties.-- <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The penalties 
        provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
        shall apply to a person that violates, attempts to violate, 
        conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or 
        any regulations promulgated to carry out this section to the 
        same extent that such penalties apply to a person that commits 
        an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that Act.

    (d) Rules of Construction.--
            (1) For purposes of determinations under subsection (a) that 
        a foreign person engaged in activities described in subsection 
        (b), a foreign person shall not be determined to know that 
        petroleum or petroleum products originated from Iran if such 
        person relied on a certificate of origin or other documentation 
        confirming that the origin of the petroleum or petroleum 
        products was a country other than Iran, unless such person knew 
        or had reason to know that such documentation was falsified.
            (2) Nothing in this division shall be construed to affect 
        the availability of any existing authorities to issue waivers, 
        exceptions, exemptions, licenses, or other authorization.

    (e) <<NOTE: President.>> Implementation; Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The President may exercise all authorities 
        under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) for purposes of 
        carrying out this section.
            (2) Deadline for regulations.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this division, the President shall 
        prescribe such regulations as may be necessary for the 
        implementation of this division.
            (3) Notification to congress.-- 
        <<NOTE: Deadline. Briefing.>> Not later than 10 days before the 
        prescription of regulations under paragraph (2), the

[[Page 138 STAT. 966]]

        President shall brief and provide written notification to the 
        appropriate congressional committees regarding--
                    (A) the proposed regulations; and
                    (B) the specific provisions of this division that 
                the regulations are implementing.

    (f) Exception for Humanitarian Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Sanctions under this section shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) the conduct or facilitation of a transaction for 
                the provision of agricultural commodities, food, 
                medicine, medical devices, or humanitarian assistance, 
                or for humanitarian purposes; or
                    (B) transactions that are necessary for or related 
                to the activities described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
                commodity'' has the meaning given that term in section 
                102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
                5602).
                    (B) Medical device.--The term ``medical device'' has 
                the meaning given the term ``device'' in section 201 of 
                the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
                321).
                    (C) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the meaning 
                given the term ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal 
                Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

    (g) Exception for Safety of Vessels and Crew.--Sanctions under this 
section shall not apply with respect to a person providing provisions to 
a vessel otherwise subject to sanctions under this section if such 
provisions are intended for the safety and care of the crew aboard the 
vessel, the protection of human life aboard the vessel, or the 
maintenance of the vessel to avoid any environmental or other 
significant damage.
    (h) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.-- <<NOTE: Time period. Deadline.>> The 
        President may, on a case-by-case basis and for periods not to 
        exceed 180 days each, waive the application of sanctions imposed 
        with respect to a foreign person under this section if the 
        President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees, 
        not later than 15 days after such waiver is to take effect, that 
        the waiver is vital to the national interests of the United 
        States.
            (2) <<NOTE: Certification.>> Special rule.--The President 
        shall not be required to impose sanctions under this section 
        with respect to a foreign person described in subsection (a) if 
        the President certifies in writing to the appropriate 
        congressional committees that the foreign person--
                    (A) is no longer engaging in activities described in 
                subsection (b); or
                    (B) has taken and is continuing to take significant, 
                verifiable steps toward permanently terminating such 
                activities.

    (i) Termination.-- <<NOTE: Certification.>> The authorities provided 
by this section shall cease to have effect on and after the date that is 
30 days after the date on which the President certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) the Government of Iran no longer repeatedly provides 
        support for international terrorism as determined by the 
        Secretary of State pursuant to--

[[Page 138 STAT. 967]]

                    (A) section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control 
                Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4318(c)(1)(A));
                    (B) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
                    (C) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2780); or
                    (D) any other provision of law; and
            (2) Iran has ceased the pursuit, acquisition, and 
        development of, and verifiably dismantled, its nuclear, 
        biological, and chemical weapons, ballistic missiles, and 
        ballistic missile launch technology.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8573.>> REPORT ON IRANIAN PETROLEUM AND 
                    PETROLEUM PRODUCTS EXPORTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Time period.>> In General.--Not later than 120 days 
after the date of enactment of this division, and annually thereafter 
until the date described in subsection (d), the Administrator of the 
Energy Information Administration shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report describing Iran's growing exports of 
petroleum and petroleum products, that includes the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Analysis. China.>> An analysis of Iran's exports 
        and sale of petroleum and petroleum products, including--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Estimate.>> an estimate of Iran's 
                petroleum export and sale revenue per year since 2018;
                    (B) <<NOTE: Estimate.>> an estimate of Iran's 
                petroleum export and sale revenue to China per year 
                since 2018;
                    (C) the amount of petroleum and crude oil barrels 
                exported per year since 2018;
                    (D) the amount of petroleum and crude oil barrels 
                exported to China per year since 2018;
                    (E) the amount of petroleum and crude oil barrels 
                exported to countries other than China per year since 
                2018;
                    (F) the average price per petroleum and crude oil 
                barrel exported per year since 2018; and
                    (G) the average price per petroleum and crude oil 
                barrel exported to China per year since 2018.
            (2) <<NOTE: Analysis.>> An analysis of Iran's labeling 
        practices of exported petroleum and petroleum products.
            (3) A description of companies involved in the exporting and 
        sale of Iranian petroleum and petroleum products.
            (4) A description of ships involved in the exporting and 
        sale of Iranian petroleum and petroleum products.
            (5) A description of ports involved in the exporting and 
        sale of Iranian petroleum and petroleum products.

    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Publication.-- <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting.>> The 
unclassified portion of the report required by subsection (a) shall be 
posted on a publicly available website of the Energy Information 
Administration.

    (d) Termination.--The requirement to submit reports under this 
section shall be terminated on the date on which the President makes the 
certification described in section 3(i).
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8574.>> STRATEGY TO COUNTER ROLE OF THE 
                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN EVASION OF 
                    SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRAN.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Briefing. Assessment.>> Not later than 120 
days after the date of the enactment of this division, the Secretary of 
State, in consultation

[[Page 138 STAT. 968]]

with the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees a written strategy, and provide 
to those committees an accompanying briefing, on the role of the 
People's Republic of China in evasion of sanctions imposed by the United 
States with respect to Iranian-origin petroleum products that includes 
an assessment of options--
            (1) to strengthen the enforcement of such sanctions; and
            (2) to expand sanctions designations targeting the 
        involvement of the People's Republic of China in the production, 
        transportation, storage, refining, and sale of Iranian-origin 
        petroleum products.

    (b) Elements.-- <<NOTE: Assessments.>> The strategy required by 
subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a description and assessment of the use of sanctions in 
        effect before the date of the enactment of this division to 
        target individuals and entities of the People's Republic of 
        China that are directly or indirectly associated with smuggling 
        of Iranian-origin petroleum products;
            (2) an assessment of--
                    (A) Iranian-owned entities operating in the People's 
                Republic of China and involved in petroleum refining 
                supply chains;
                    (B) the People's Republic of China's role in global 
                petroleum refining supply chains;
                    (C) how the People's Republic of China leverages its 
                role in global petroleum supply chains to achieve 
                political objectives;
                    (D) the People's Republic of China's petroleum 
                importing and exporting partners;
                    (E) what percent of the People's Republic of China's 
                energy consumption is linked to illegally imported 
                Iranian-origin petroleum products; and
                    (F) what level of influence the Chinese Communist 
                Party holds over non-state, semi-independent ``teapot'' 
                refineries;
            (3) <<NOTE: Plan.>> a detailed plan for--
                    (A) monitoring the maritime domain for sanctionable 
                activity related to smuggling of Iranian-origin 
                petroleum products;
                    (B) identifying the individuals, entities, and 
                vessels engaging in sanctionable activity related to 
                Iranian-origin petroleum products, including--
                          (i) vessels--
                                    (I) transporting petrochemicals 
                                subject to sanctions;
                                    (II) conducting ship-to-ship 
                                transfers of such petrochemicals;
                                    (III) with deactivated automatic 
                                identification systems; or
                                    (IV) that engage in ``flag hopping'' 
                                by changing national registries;
                          (ii) individuals or entities--
                                    (I) storing petrochemicals subject 
                                to sanctions; or
                                    (II) refining or otherwise 
                                processing such petrochemicals; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 969]]

                          (iii) through the use of port entry and 
                      docking permission of vessels subject to 
                      sanctions;
                    (C) deterring individuals and entities from 
                violating sanctions by educating and engaging--
                          (i) insurance providers;
                          (ii) parent companies; and
                          (iii) vessel operators;
                    (D) collaborating with allies and partners of the 
                United States engaged in the Arabian Peninsula, 
                including through standing or new maritime task forces, 
                to build sanctions enforcement capacity through 
                assistance and training to defense and law enforcement 
                services; and
                    (E) using public communications and global 
                diplomatic engagements to highlight the role of illicit 
                petroleum product smuggling in bolstering Iran's support 
                for terrorism and its nuclear program; and
            (4) an assessment of--
                    (A) the total number of vessels smuggling Iranian-
                origin petroleum products;
                    (B) the total number of vessels smuggling such 
                petroleum products destined for the People's Republic of 
                China;
                    (C) the number of vessels smuggling such petroleum 
                products specifically from the Islamic Revolutionary 
                Guard Corps;
                    (D) interference by the People's Republic of China 
                with attempts by the United States to investigate or 
                enforce sanctions on illicit Iranian petroleum product 
                exports;
                    (E) the effectiveness of the use of sanctions with 
                respect to insurers of entities that own or operate 
                vessels involved in smuggling Iranian-origin petroleum 
                products;
                    (F) the personnel and resources needed to enforce 
                sanctions with respect to Iranian-origin petroleum 
                products; and
                    (G) the impact of smuggled illicit Iranian-origin 
                petroleum products on global energy markets.

    (c) Form.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified index.
SEC. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8575.>> 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Financial 
                Services of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
            (2) Covered family member.--The term ``covered family 
        member'', with respect to a foreign person who is an individual, 
        means a spouse, adult child, parent, or sibling of the person 
        who engages in the sanctionable activity described under section 
        3 or who demonstrably benefits from such activity.

[[Page 138 STAT. 970]]

 DIVISION K-- <<NOTE: Fight and Combat Rampant Iranian Missile Exports 
Act. 22 USC 9421 note.>> FIGHT CRIME ACT
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Fight and Combat Rampant Iranian 
Missile Exports Act'' or the ``Fight CRIME Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9421.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 
        2231 (2015) restricts certain missile-related activities and 
        transfers to and from Iran, including all items, materials, 
        equipment, goods, and technology set out in the Missile 
        Technology Control Regime Annex, absent advance, case-by-case 
        approval from the United Nations Security Council.
            (2) Iran has transferred Shahed and Mohajer drones, covered 
        under the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, to the 
        Russian Federation, the Government of Ethiopia, and other Iran-
        aligned entities, including the Houthis in Yemen and militia 
        units in Iraq, without prior authorization from the United 
        Nations Security Council, in violation of the restrictions set 
        forth in Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 
        2231.
            (3) Certain missile-related restrictions in Annex B to 
        United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 expired in 
        October 2023, removing international legal restrictions on 
        missile-related activities and transfers to and from Iran.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9422.>>  STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to urgently seek the extension of missile-related 
        restrictions set forth in Annex B to United Nations Security 
        Council Resolution 2231 (2015);
            (2) to use all available authorities to constrain Iran's 
        domestic ballistic missile production capabilities;
            (3) to combat and deter the transfer of conventional and 
        non-conventional arms, equipment, material, and technology to, 
        or from Iran, or involving the Government of Iran; and
            (4) to ensure countries, individuals, and entities engaged 
        in, or attempting to engage in, the acquisition, facilitation, 
        or development of arms and related components and technology 
        subject to restrictions under Annex B to United Nations Security 
        Council Resolution 2231 are held to account under United States 
        and international law, including through the application and 
        enforcement of sanctions and use of export controls, regardless 
        of whether the restrictions under Annex B to United Nations 
        Security Council Resolution 2231 remain in effect following 
        their anticipated expiration in October 2023.
SEC. 4. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this division, and annually thereafter for two years, the 
Secretary of State, in coordination with the heads of other appropriate 
Federal agencies, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees an unclassified report, with a classified annex if necessary, 
that includes the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: Strategy.>> A diplomatic strategy to secure the 
        renewal of international restrictions on certain missile-related 
        activities,

[[Page 138 STAT. 971]]

        including transfers to and from Iran set forth in Annex B to 
        United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
            (2) <<NOTE: Analysis.>> An analysis of how the expiration of 
        missile-related restrictions set forth in Annex B to United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 impacts the Government 
        of Iran's arms proliferation and malign activities, including as 
        the restrictions relate to cooperation with, and support for, 
        Iran-aligned entities and allied countries.
            (3) <<NOTE: Assessment.>> An assessment of the revenue, or 
        in-kind benefits, accrued by the Government of Iran, or Iran-
        aligned entities, as a result of a lapse in missile-related 
        restrictions set forth in Annex B to United Nations Security 
        Council Resolution 2231.
            (4) A detailed description of a United States strategy to 
        deter, prevent, and disrupt the sale, purchase, or transfer of 
        covered technology involving Iran absent restrictions pursuant 
        to Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231.
            (5) An identification of any foreign person engaging in, 
        enabling, or otherwise facilitating any activity involving Iran 
        restricted under Annex B to United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 2231, regardless of whether such restrictions remain 
        in effect after October 2023.
            (6) A description of actions by the United Nations and other 
        multilateral organizations, including the European Union, to 
        hold accountable foreign persons that have violated the 
        restrictions set forth in Annex B to United Nations Security 
        Council Resolution 2231, and efforts to prevent further 
        violations of such restrictions.
            (7) A description of actions by individual member states of 
        the United Nations Security Council to hold accountable foreign 
        persons that have violated restrictions set forth in Annex B to 
        United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 and efforts to 
        prevent further violations of such restrictions.
            (8) A description of actions by the People's Republic of 
        China, the Russian Federation, or any other country to prevent, 
        interfere with, or undermine efforts to hold accountable foreign 
        persons that have violated the restrictions set forth in Annex B 
        to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231, including 
        actions to restrict United Nations-led investigations into 
        suspected violations of such restrictions, or limit funding to 
        relevant United Nations offices or experts.
            (9) <<NOTE: Analysis.>> An analysis of the foreign and 
        domestic supply chains in Iran that directly or indirectly 
        facilitate, support, or otherwise aid the Government of Iran's 
        drone or missile program, including storage, transportation, or 
        flight-testing of related goods, technology, or components.
            (10) An identification of any foreign person, or network 
        containing foreign persons, that enables, supports, or otherwise 
        facilitates the operations or maintenance of any Iranian airline 
        subject to United States sanctions or export control 
        restrictions.
            (11) <<NOTE: Assessment.>> An assessment of how the 
        continued operation of Iranian airlines subject to United States 
        sanctions or export control restrictions impacts the Government 
        of Iran's ability to transport or develop arms, including 
        covered technology.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time periods.>> Scope.--The initial report required by 
subsection (a) shall address the period beginning on January 1, 2021, 
and ending on

[[Page 138 STAT. 972]]

the date that is 90 days after date of the enactment of this division, 
and each subsequent report shall address the one-year period following 
the conclusion of the prior report.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 9423.>> SANCTIONS TO COMBAT THE 
                    PROLIFERATION OF IRANIAN MISSILES.

    (a) <<NOTE: Applicability. Determination.>> In General.--The 
sanctions described in subsection (b) shall apply to any foreign person 
the President determines, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
division--
            (1) knowingly engages in any effort to acquire, possess, 
        develop, transport, transfer, or deploy covered technology to, 
        from, or involving the Government of Iran or Iran-aligned 
        entities, regardless of whether the restrictions set forth in 
        Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
        (2015) remain in effect after October 2023;
            (2) knowingly provides entities owned or controlled by the 
        Government of Iran or Iran-aligned entities with goods, 
        technology, parts, or components, that may contribute to the 
        development of covered technology;
            (3) knowingly participates in joint missile or drone 
        development, including development of covered technology, with 
        the Government of Iran or Iran-aligned entities, including 
        technical training, storage, and transport;
            (4) knowingly imports, exports, or re-exports to, into, or 
        from Iran, whether directly or indirectly, any significant arms 
        or related materiel prohibited under paragraph (5) or (6) to 
        Annex B of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
        (2015) as of April 1, 2023;
            (5) knowingly provides significant financial, material, or 
        technological support to, or knowingly engages in a significant 
        transaction with, a foreign person subject to sanctions for 
        conduct described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4); or
            (6) is an adult family member of a person subject to 
        sanctions for conduct described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or 
        (4).

    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
        authorities granted under the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to 
        block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
        property of the foreign person if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or come within the possession or control of a United 
        States person.
            (2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described 
                in subsection (a) shall be--
                          (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                          (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                      documentation to enter the United States; and
                          (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or 
                      paroled into the United States or to receive any 
                      other benefit under the Immigration and 
                      Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 16 seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                          (i) In general.--The visa or other entry 
                      documentation of any alien described in subsection 
                      (a) is

[[Page 138 STAT. 973]]

                      subject to revocation regardless of the issue date 
                      of the visa or other entry documentation.
                          (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                      clause (i) shall, in accordance with section 
                      221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                      U.S.C. 1201(i))--
                                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                                    (II) cancel any other valid visa or 
                                entry documentation that is in the 
                                possession of the alien.

    (c) Penalties.--Any person that violates, or attempts to violate, 
subsection (b) or any regulation, license, or order issued pursuant to 
that subsection, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in 
subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits 
an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) <<NOTE: Time period. Deadline. Determination.>> Waiver.--The 
President may waive the application of sanctions under this section with 
respect to a foreign person for renewable periods not to exceed 180 days 
only if, not later than 15 days after the date on which the waiver is to 
take effect, the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
committees a written determination and justification that the waiver is 
in the vital national security interests of the United States.

    (e) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out any 
amendments made by this section.
    (f) Regulations.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--The President shall, 
        not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        division, promulgate regulations as necessary for the 
        implementation of this division and the amendments made by this 
        division.
            (2) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Notification to congress.--Not 
        less than 10 days before the promulgation of regulations under 
        subsection (a), the President shall notify the appropriate 
        congressional committees of the proposed regulations and the 
        provisions of this division and the amendments made by this 
        division that the regulations are implementing.

    (g) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--Sanctions under 
        this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the 
        reporting requirements under title V of the National Security 
        Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized 
        intelligence activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception to comply with international obligations and 
        for law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under this section 
        shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or 
        paroling the alien into the United States is necessary--
                    (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
                Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
                Nations and the United States, or other applicable 
                international obligations; or
                    (B) to carry out or assist authorized law 
                enforcement activity in the United States.

    (h) <<NOTE: Certification.>> Termination of Sanctions.--This section 
shall cease to be effective beginning on the date that is 30 days after 
the date

[[Page 138 STAT. 974]]

on which the President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that--
            (1) the Government of Iran no longer repeatedly provides 
        support for international terrorism as determined by the 
        Secretary of State pursuant to--
                    (A) section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control 
                Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4318(c)(1)(A));
                    (B) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
                    (C) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2780); or
                    (D) any other provision of law; and
            (2) Iran has ceased the pursuit, acquisition, and 
        development of, and verifiably dismantled its, nuclear, 
        biological, and chemical weapons and ballistic missiles and 
        ballistic missile launch technology.
SEC. 6. REPORT TO IDENTIFY, AND DESIGNATION AS FOREIGN TERRORIST 
                    ORGANIZATIONS OF, IRANIAN PERSONS THAT HAVE 
                    ATTACKED UNITED STATES CITIZENS USING UNMANNED 
                    COMBAT AERIAL VEHICLES.

    (a) <<NOTE: Time period.>> In General.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this division, and every 180 days 
thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report that identifies, for the period 
specified in subsection (b), any Iranian person that has attacked a 
United States citizen using an unmanned combat aerial vehicle, as 
defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register of Conventional 
Arms.

    (b) Period Specified.--The period specified in this subsection is--
            (1) for the initial report, the period--
                    (A) beginning on October 27, 2023; and
                    (B) ending on the date such report is submitted; and
            (2) for the second or a subsequent report, the period--
                    (A) beginning on the date the preceding report was 
                submitted; and
                    (B) ending on the date such second or subsequent 
                report is submitted.

    (c) <<NOTE: President.>> Designation of Persons as Foreign Terrorist 
Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall designate any person 
        identified in a report submitted under subsection (a) as a 
        foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Naturalization Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Revocation.--The President may not revoke a designation 
        made under paragraph (1) until the date that is 4 years after 
        the date of such designation.

    (d) <<NOTE: Determination. Certification.>> Waiver.--The Secretary 
of State may waive the requirements of this section upon a determination 
and certification to the appropriate congressional committees that such 
a waiver is in the vital national security interests of the United 
States.

    (e) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on the date that is 4 
years after the date of the enactment of this division.
    (f) Iranian Person Defined.--In this section, the term ``Iranian 
person''--

[[Page 138 STAT. 975]]

            (1) means an entity organized under the laws of Iran or 
        otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran; 
        and
            (2) includes the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 22 USC 9424.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Financial Services, and the Committee on the 
                Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
            (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
                    (A) means an individual or entity that is not a 
                United States person; and
                    (B) includes a foreign state (as such term is 
                defined in section 1603 of title 28, United States 
                Code).
            (3) Government of iran.--The term ``Government of Iran'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 31, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, as such section was in effect on January 
        1, 2021.
            (4) United states person.--The terms ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen;
                    (B) a permanent resident alien of the United States;
                    (C) an entity organized under the laws of the United 
                States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, 
                including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
                    (D) a person in the United States.
            (5) Iran-aligned entity.--The term ``Iran-aligned entity'' 
        means a foreign person that--
                    (A) is controlled or significantly influenced by the 
                Government of Iran; and
                    (B) knowingly receives material or financial support 
                from the Government of Iran, including Hezbollah, the 
                Houthis, or any other proxy group that furthers Iran's 
                national security objectives.
            (6) Covered technology.--The term ``covered technology'' 
        means--
                    (A) any goods, technology, software, or related 
                material specified in the Missile Technology Control 
                Regime Annex, as in effect on the day before the date of 
                the enactment of this division; and
                    (B) any additional goods, technology, software, or 
                related material added to the Missile Technology Control 
                Regime Annex after the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this division.
            (7) Family member.--The term ``family member'' means--
                    (A) a child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, 
                sibling, or spouse; and
                    (B) any spouse, widow, or widower of an individual 
                described in subparagraph (A).

[[Page 138 STAT. 976]]

            (8) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 
        U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (9) Missile technology control regime.--The term ``Missile 
        Technology Control Regime'' means the policy statement, between 
        the United States, the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of 
        Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced on April 
        16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant transfers based 
        on the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, and any 
        amendments thereto or expansions thereof, as in effect on the 
        day before the date of the enactment of this division.
            (10) Missile technology control regime annex.--The term 
        ``Missile Technology Control Regime Annex'' means the Guidelines 
        and Equipment and Technology Annex of the Missile Technology 
        Control Regime, and any amendments thereto or updates thereof, 
        as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
        division.

       DIVISION L-- <<NOTE: Mahsa Amini Human rights and Security 
Accountability Act. 22 USC 8501 note.>> MAHSA ACT
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Mahsa Amini Human rights and 
Security Accountability Act'' or the ``MAHSA Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS ON 
                    IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER'S OFFICE, ITS 
                    APPOINTEES, AND ANY AFFILIATED PERSONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Supreme Leader is an institution of the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran.
            (2) The Supreme Leader holds ultimate authority over Iran's 
        judiciary and security apparatus, including the Ministry of 
        Intelligence and Security, law enforcement forces under the 
        Interior Ministry, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), 
        and the Basij, a nationwide volunteer paramilitary group 
        subordinate to the IRGC, all of which have engaged in human 
        rights abuses in Iran. Additionally the IRGC, a United States 
        designated Foreign Terrorist Organization, which reports to the 
        Supreme Leader, continues to perpetrate terrorism around the 
        globe, including attempts to kill and kidnap American citizens 
        on United States soil.
            (3) The Supreme Leader appoints the head of Iran's 
        judiciary. International observers continue to criticize the 
        lack of independence of Iran's judicial system and maintained 
        that trials disregarded international standards of fairness.
            (4) The revolutionary courts, created by Iran's former 
        Supreme Leader Ruhollah Khomeini, within Iran's judiciary, are 
        chiefly responsible for hearing cases of political offenses, 
        operate in parallel to Iran's criminal justice system and 
        routinely hold grossly unfair trials without due process, 
        handing down predetermined verdicts and rubberstamping 
        executions for political purpose.
            (5) The Iranian security and law enforcement forces engage 
        in serious human rights abuse at the behest of the Supreme 
        Leader.

[[Page 138 STAT. 977]]

            (6) Iran's President, Ebrahim Raisi, sits at the helm of the 
        most sanctioned cabinet in Iranian history which includes 
        internationally sanctioned rights violators. Raisi has supported 
        the recent crackdown on protestors and is a rights violator 
        himself, having served on a ``death commission'' in 1988 that 
        led to the execution of several thousand political prisoners in 
        Iran. He most recently served as the head of Iran's judiciary, a 
        position appointed by Iran's current Supreme Leader Ali 
        Khamenei, and may likely be a potential candidate to replace 
        Khamenei as Iran's next Supreme Leader.
            (7) On September 16, 2022, a 22-year-old woman, Mahsa Amini, 
        died in the detention of the Morality Police after being beaten 
        and detained for allegedly transgressing discriminatory dress 
        codes for women. This tragic incident triggered widespread, pro-
        women's rights, pro-democracy protests across all of Iran's 31 
        provinces, calling for the end to Iran's theocratic regime.
            (8) In the course of the protests, the Iranian security 
        forces' violent crackdown includes mass arrests, well documented 
        beating of protestors, throttling of the internet and 
        telecommunications services, and shooting protestors with live 
        ammunition. Iranian security forces have reportedly killed 
        hundreds of protestors and other civilians, including women and 
        children, and wounded many more.
            (9) Iran's Supreme Leader is the leader of the ``Axis of 
        Resistance'', which is a network of Tehran's terror proxy and 
        partner militias materially supported by the Islamic 
        Revolutionary Guard Corps that targets the United States as well 
        as its allies and partners.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States shall stand with and support the 
        people of Iran in their demand for fundamental human rights;
            (2) the United States shall continue to hold the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran, particularly the Supreme Leader and President, 
        accountable for abuses of human rights, corruption, and export 
        of terrorism; and
            (3) Iran must immediately end its gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights.

    (c) In General.--
            (1) <<NOTE: President.>> Determination and report 
        required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this division, and annually thereafter, the 
        President shall--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determine whether each 
                foreign person described in subsection (d) meets the 
                criteria for imposition of sanctions under one or more 
                of the sanctions programs and authorities listed in 
                paragraph (2);
                    (B) impose applicable sanctions against any foreign 
                person determined to meet the criteria for imposition of 
                sanctions pursuant to subparagraph (A) under the 
                sanctions programs and authorities listed in 
                subparagraph (A) or (F) of subsection (c)(2) and pursue 
                applicable sanctions against any foreign person 
                determined to meet the criteria for imposition of 
                sanctions pursuant to subparagraph (A) under the 
                sanctions programs and authorities listed in 
                subparagraph (B), (C), (D), or (E) of subsection (c)(2); 
                and

[[Page 138 STAT. 978]]

                    (C) submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees a report in unclassified form, with a 
                classified annex provided separately if needed, 
                containing--
                          (i) <<NOTE: List.>> a list of all foreign 
                      persons described in subsection (d) that meet the 
                      criteria for imposition of sanctions under one or 
                      more of the sanctions programs and authorities 
                      listed in paragraph (2); and
                          (ii) for each foreign person identified 
                      pursuant to clause (i)--
                                    (I) <<NOTE: List.>> a list of each 
                                sanctions program or authority listed in 
                                paragraph (2) for which the person meets 
                                the criteria for imposition of 
                                sanctions;
                                    (II) <<NOTE: Statement.>> a 
                                statement which, if any, of the 
                                sanctions authorized by any of the 
                                sanctions programs and authorities 
                                identified pursuant to subclause (I) 
                                have been imposed or will be imposed 
                                within 30 days of the submission of the 
                                report; and
                                    (III) with respect to which any of 
                                the sanctions authorized by any of the 
                                sanctions programs and authorities 
                                identified pursuant to subclause (I) 
                                have not been imposed and will not be 
                                imposed within 30 days of the submission 
                                of the report, the specific authority 
                                under which otherwise applicable 
                                sanctions are being waived, have 
                                otherwise been determined not to apply, 
                                or are not being imposed and a complete 
                                justification of the decision to waive 
                                or otherwise not apply the sanctions 
                                authorized by such sanctions programs 
                                and authorities.
            (2) Sanctions listed.--The sanctions listed in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) Sanctions described in section 105(c) of the 
                Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
                Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)).
                    (B) Sanctions applicable with respect to a person 
                pursuant to Executive Order 13553 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
                relating to blocking property of certain persons with 
                respect to serious human rights abuses by the Government 
                of Iran).
                    (C) Sanctions applicable with respect to a person 
                pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
                relating to blocking property and prohibiting 
                transactions with persons who commit, threaten to 
                commit, or support terrorism).
                    (D) Sanctions applicable with respect to a person 
                pursuant to Executive Order 13818 (relating to blocking 
                the property of persons involved in serious human rights 
                abuse or corruption).
                    (E) Sanctions applicable with respect to a person 
                pursuant to Executive Order 13876 (relating to imposing 
                sanctions with respect to Iran).
                    (F) Penalties and visa bans applicable with respect 
                to a person pursuant to section 7031(c) of the 
                Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
                Programs Appropriations Act, 2021.
            (3) <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting.>> Form of 
        determination.--The determination required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be provided in an unclassified form

[[Page 138 STAT. 979]]

        but may contain a classified annex provided separately 
        containing additional contextual information pertaining to 
        justification for the issuance of any waiver issued, as 
        described in paragraph (1)(C)(ii). The unclassified portion of 
        such determination shall be made available on a publicly 
        available internet website of the Federal Government.

    (d) Foreign Persons Described.--The foreign persons described in 
this subsection are the following:
            (1) The Supreme Leader of Iran and any official in the 
        Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran.
            (2) The President of Iran and any official in the Office of 
        the President of Iran or the President's cabinet, including 
        cabinet ministers and executive vice presidents.
            (3) Any entity, including foundations and economic 
        conglomerates, overseen by the Office of the Supreme Leader of 
        Iran which is complicit in financing or resourcing of human 
        rights abuses or support for terrorism.
            (4) Any official of any entity owned or controlled by the 
        Supreme Leader of Iran or the Office of the Supreme Leader of 
        Iran.
            (5) Any person determined by the President--
                    (A) to be a person appointed by the Supreme Leader 
                of Iran, the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran, the 
                President of Iran, or the Office of the President of 
                Iran to a position as a state official of Iran, or as 
                the head of any entity located in Iran or any entity 
                located outside of Iran that is owned or controlled by 
                one or more entities in Iran;
                    (B) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or 
                provided financial, material, or technological support 
                for, or goods or services to or in support of any person 
                whose property and interests in property are blocked 
                pursuant to any sanctions program or authority listed in 
                subsection (c)(2);
                    (C) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted 
                or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or 
                indirectly any person whose property and interests in 
                property are blocked pursuant to any sanctions program 
                or authority listed in subsection (c)(2); or
                    (D) to be a member of the board of directors or a 
                senior executive officer of any person whose property 
                and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any 
                sanctions program or authority listed in subsection 
                (c)(2).

    (e) Congressional Oversight.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>>  In general.--Not later 
        than 60 days after receiving a request from the chairman and 
        ranking member of one of the appropriate congressional 
        committees with respect to whether a foreign person meets the 
        criteria of a person described in subsection (d)(5), the 
        President shall--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determine if the person 
                meets such criteria; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Reports.>> submit an unclassified 
                report, with a classified annex provided separately if 
                needed, to such chairman and ranking member with respect 
                to such determination that includes a statement of 
                whether or not the President imposed or intends to 
                impose sanctions with respect to the person pursuant to 
                any sanctions program or authority listed in subsection 
                (c)(2).

[[Page 138 STAT. 980]]

            (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the 
                Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
                Senate.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this division, or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstance, is found to be 
unconstitutional, the remainder of this division, or the application of 
that provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected.

   DIVISION M-- <<NOTE: Hamas and Other Palestinian Terrorist Groups 
 International Financing Prevention Act.>> HAMAS AND OTHER PALESTINIAN 
TERRORIST GROUPS INTERNATIONAL FINANCING PREVENTION ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Hamas and Other Palestinian 
Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States--
            (1) to prevent Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
        Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate or successor 
        thereof from accessing its international support networks; and
            (2) to oppose Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
        Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate or successor 
        thereof from using goods, including medicine and dual use items, 
        to smuggle weapons and other materials to further acts of 
        terrorism, including against Israel.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1701 note.>> IMPOSITION OF 
                    SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN PERSONS 
                    SUPPORTING ACTS OF TERRORISM OR ENGAGING IN 
                    SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS WITH SENIOR MEMBERS 
                    OF HAMAS, PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC JIHAD AND OTHER 
                    PALESTINIAN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Determination.>> In General.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of enactment of this division, the President 
shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to 
each foreign person that the President determines, on or after the date 
of the enactment of this division, engages in an activity described in 
subsection (b).

    (b) Activities Described.--A foreign person engages in an activity 
described in this subsection if the foreign person knowingly--
            (1) assists in sponsoring or providing significant 
        financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or 
        other services to enable, acts of terrorism; or
            (2) engages, directly or indirectly, in a significant 
        transaction with--

[[Page 138 STAT. 981]]

                    (A) a senior member of Hamas, Palestinian Islamic 
                Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any 
                affiliate or successor thereof; or
                    (B) a senior member of a foreign terrorist 
                organization designated pursuant to section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) that is 
                responsible for providing, directly or indirectly, 
                support to Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
                Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate or 
                successor thereof.

    (c) Sanctions Described.--The President shall exercise all of the 
powers granted to the President under the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to 
block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
property of a foreign person described in subsection (a) if such 
property and interests in property are in the United States, come within 
the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
United States person.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Penalties.--The penalties provided for 
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that 
violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a 
violation of this section or any regulations promulgated to carry out 
this section to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person 
that commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that Act.

    (e) Implementation; Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The President may exercise all authorities 
        provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) for 
        purposes of carrying out this section.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Regulations.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this division, the President 
        shall issue regulations or other guidance as may be necessary 
        for the implementation of this section.

    (f) <<NOTE: Time period. Deadline. Determination.>> Waiver.--The 
President may waive, on a case-by-case basis and for a period of not 
more than 180 days, the application of sanctions under this section with 
respect to a foreign person only if, not later than 15 days prior to the 
date on which the waiver is to take effect, the President submits to the 
appropriate congressional committees a written determination and 
justification that the waiver is in the vital national security 
interests of the United States.

    (g) Humanitarian Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Sanctions under this section shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) the conduct or facilitation of a transaction for 
                the provision of agricultural commodities, food, 
                medicine, medical devices, or humanitarian assistance, 
                or for humanitarian purposes; or
                    (B) transactions that are necessary for or related 
                to the activities described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
                commodity'' has the meaning given that term in section 
                102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
                5602).

[[Page 138 STAT. 982]]

                    (B) Medical device.--The term ``medical device'' has 
                the meaning given the term ``device'' in section 201 of 
                the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
                321).
                    (C) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the meaning 
                given the term ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal 
                Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

    (h) Rule of Construction.--The authority to impose sanctions under 
this section with respect to a foreign person is in addition to the 
authority to impose sanctions under any other provision of law with 
respect to a foreign person that directly or indirectly supports acts of 
international terrorism.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1701 note.>> IMPOSITION OF 
                    MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN STATES 
                    PROVIDING SUPPORT TO HAMAS, PALESTINIAN 
                    ISLAMIC JIHAD AND OTHER PALESTINIAN TERRORIST 
                    ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Determination.>> In General.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of enactment of this division, the President 
shall impose the measures described in subsection (c) with respect to a 
foreign state if the President determines that the foreign state, on or 
after the date of the enactment of this division, engages in an activity 
described in subsection (b).

    (b) Activities Described.--A foreign state engages in an activity 
described in this subsection if the foreign state knowingly--
            (1) provides significant material or financial support for 
        acts of international terrorism, pursuant to--
                    (A) section 1754(c) of the Export Control Reform Act 
                of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4813(c)(1)(A));
                    (B) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
                    (C) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2780); or
                    (D) any other provision of law;
            (2) provides significant material support to Hamas, the 
        Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's 
        Den, or any affiliate or successor thereof; or
            (3) engages in a significant transaction that materially 
        contributes, directly or indirectly, to the terrorist activities 
        of Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs 
        Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate or successor thereof.

    (c) <<NOTE: Time periods.>> Measures Described.--The measures 
described in this subsection with respect to a foreign state are the 
following:
            (1) The President shall suspend, for a period of at least 1 
        year, United States assistance to the foreign state.
            (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States Executive Director to each appropriate international 
        financial institution to oppose, and vote against, for a period 
        of 1 year, the extension by such institution of any loan or 
        financial or technical assistance to the government of the 
        foreign state.
            (3) The President shall prohibit the export of any item on 
        the United States Munitions List (established pursuant to 
        section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778)) or 
        the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 
        774 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, to the foreign 
        state for a period of 1 year.

[[Page 138 STAT. 983]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Penalties.--The penalties provided for 
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that 
violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a 
violation of this section or any regulations promulgated to carry out 
this section to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person 
that commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that Act.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadlines. Determination.>> Waiver.--The President may 
waive, on a case-by-case basis and for a period of not more than 180 
days, the application of measures under this section with respect to a 
foreign state only if, not later than 15 days prior to the date on which 
the waiver is to take effect, the President submits to the appropriate 
congressional committees a written determination and justification that 
the waiver is in the vital national security interests of the United 
States.

    (f) Implementation; Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The President may exercise all authorities 
        provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) for 
        purposes of carrying out this section.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Regulations.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this division, the President 
        shall issue regulations or other guidance as may be necessary 
        for the implementation of this section.

    (g) Additional Exemptions.--
            (1) Status of forces agreements.--The President may exempt 
        the application of measures under this section with respect to a 
        foreign state if the application of such measures would prevent 
        the United States from meeting the terms of any status of forces 
        agreement to which the United States is a party or meeting other 
        obligations relating to the basing of United States service 
        members.
            (2) Authorized intelligence activities.--Measures under this 
        section shall not apply with respect to any activity subject to 
        the reporting requirements under title V of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized 
        intelligence activities of the United States.
            (3) Humanitarian assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--Measures under this section shall 
                not apply to--
                          (i) the conduct or facilitation of a 
                      transaction for the provision of agricultural 
                      commodities, food, medicine, medical devices, or 
                      humanitarian assistance, or for humanitarian 
                      purposes; or
                          (ii) transactions that are necessary for or 
                      related to the activities described in clause (i).
                    (B) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                          (i) Agricultural commodity.--The term 
                      ``agricultural commodity'' has the meaning given 
                      that term in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade 
                      Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
                          (ii) Medical device.--The term ``medical 
                      device'' has the meaning given the term ``device'' 
                      in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
                      Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

[[Page 138 STAT. 984]]

                          (iii) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the 
                      meaning given the term ``drug'' in section 201 of 
                      the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
                      U.S.C. 321).

    (h) Rule of Construction.--The authority to impose measures under 
this section with respect to a foreign state is in addition to the 
authority to impose measures under any other provision of law with 
respect to foreign states that directly or indirectly support acts of 
international terrorism.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  REPORTS ON ACTIVITIES TO 
                    DISRUPT GLOBAL FUNDRAISING, FINANCING, AND 
                    MONEY LAUNDERING ACTIVITIES OF HAMAS, 
                    PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC JIHAD, AL-AQSA MARTYRS 
                    BRIGADE, THE LION'S DEN OR ANY AFFILIATE OR 
                    SUCCESSOR THEREOF.

    (a) <<NOTE: Lists.>> In General.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of enactment of this division, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report that includes--
            (1) <<NOTE: Assessment.>> an assessment of the disposition 
        of the assets and activities of Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic 
        Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate 
        or successor thereof related to fundraising, financing, and 
        money laundering worldwide;
            (2) a list of foreign states that knowingly providing 
        material, financial, or technical support for, or goods or 
        services to Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
        Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any affiliate or successor 
        thereof;
            (3) a list of foreign states in which Hamas, the Palestinian 
        Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any 
        affiliate or successor thereof conducts significant fundraising, 
        financing, or money laundering activities;
            (4) a list of foreign states from which Hamas, the 
        Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's 
        Den, or any affiliate or successor thereof knowingly engaged in 
        the transfer of surveillance equipment, electronic monitoring 
        equipment, or other means to inhibit communication or the free 
        flow of information in Gaza; and
            (5) with respect to each foreign state listed in paragraph 
        (2), (3), or (4)--
                    (A) a description of the steps the foreign state 
                identified is taking adequate measures to restrict 
                financial flows to Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, 
                Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or any 
                affiliates or successors thereof; and
                    (B) in the case of a foreign state failing to take 
                adequate measures to restrict financial flows to Hamas, 
                Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the 
                Lion's Den or any other designated entity engaged in 
                significant act of terrorism threatening the peace and 
                security of Israel--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Assessment.>> an assessment of the 
                      reasons that government is not taking adequate 
                      measures to restrict financial flows to those 
                      entities; and
                          (ii) a description of measures being taken by 
                      the United States Government to encourage the 
                      foreign state to restrict financial flows to those 
                      entities; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 985]]

    (b) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form to the greatest extent possible, and may contain a 
classified annex.
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  TERMINATION.

    This division shall terminate on the earlier of--
            (1) the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this division; or
            (2) <<NOTE: President. Certification.>> the date that is 30 
        days after the date on which the President certifies to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that--
                    (A) Hamas or any successor or affiliate thereof is 
                no longer designated as a foreign terrorist organization 
                pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
                    (B) Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
                Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, and any successor or 
                affiliate thereof are no longer subject to sanctions 
                pursuant to--
                          (i) Executive Order No. 12947 (January 23, 
                      1995; relating to prohibiting transactions with 
                      terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East 
                      peace process); and
                          (ii) Executive Order No. 13224 (September 23, 
                      2001; relating to blocking property and 
                      prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, 
                      threaten to commit, or support terrorism); and
                    (C) Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa 
                Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, and any successor or 
                affiliate thereof meet the criteria described in 
                paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 9 of the 
                Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (22 U.S.C. 2378b 
                note).
SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Act of terrorism.--The term ``act of terrorism'' means 
        an activity that--
                    (A) involves a violent act or an act dangerous to 
                human life, property, or infrastructure; and
                    (B) appears to be intended to--
                          (i) intimidate or coerce a civilian 
                      population;
                          (ii) influence the policy of a government by 
                      intimidation or coercion; or
                          (iii) affect the conduct of a government by 
                      mass destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or 
                      hostage-taking.
            (2) Admitted.--The term ``admitted'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 101(a)(13)(A) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(13)(A)).
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
                Senate.

[[Page 138 STAT. 986]]

            (4) Foreign state.--The term ``foreign state'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 1603 of title 28, United 
        States Code.
            (5) Humanitarian aid.--The term ``humanitarian aid'' means 
        food, medicine, and medical supplies.
            (6) Material support.--The term ``material support'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``material support or resources'' in 
        section 2339A of title 18, United States Code.
            (7) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
        means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
                or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United 
                States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, 
                including a foreign branch of such an entity.

 DIVISION N-- <<NOTE: No Technology for Terror Act.>> NO TECHNOLOGY FOR 
TERROR ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 50 USC 4811 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``No Technology for Terror Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 50 USC 4811 note.>>  APPLICATION OF FOREIGN-DIRECT 
                    PRODUCT RULES TO IRAN.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  In General.--Beginning on the date 
that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this division, a 
foreign-produced item shall be subject to the Export Administration 
Regulations (pursuant to the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 
U.S.C. 4801 et seq.)) if the item--
            (1) meets--
                    (A) the product scope requirements described in 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) the destination scope requirements described in 
                subsection (c); and
            (2) is exported, reexported, or in-country transferred to 
        Iran from abroad or involves the Government of Iran.

    (b) Product Scope Requirements.--A foreign-produced item meets the 
product scope requirements of this subsection if the item--
            (1) is a direct product of United States-origin technology 
        or software subject to the Export Administration Regulations 
        that is specified in a covered Export Control Classification 
        Number or is identified in supplement no. 7 to part 746 of the 
        Export Administration Regulations; or
            (2) is produced by any plant or major component of a plant 
        that is located outside the United States, if the plant or major 
        component of a plant, whether made in the United States or a 
        foreign country, itself is a direct product of United States-
        origin technology or software subject to the Export 
        Administration Regulations that is specified in a covered Export 
        Control Classification Number.

    (c) Destination Scope Requirements.--A foreign-produced item meets 
the destination scope requirements of this subsection if there is 
knowledge that the foreign-produced item is destined to Iran or will be 
incorporated into or used in the production

[[Page 138 STAT. 987]]

or development of any part, component, or equipment subject to the 
Export Administration Regulations and produced in or destined to Iran.
    (d) License Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--A license shall be required to export, 
        reexport, or in-country transfer a foreign-produced item from 
        abroad that meets the product scope requirements described in 
        subsection (b) and the destination scope requirements described 
        in subsection (c) and is subject to the Export Administration 
        Regulations pursuant to this section.
            (2) Exceptions.--The license requirements of paragraph (1) 
        shall not apply to--
                    (A) food, medicine, or medical devices that are--
                          (i) designated as EAR99; or
                          (ii) not designated under or listed on the 
                      Commerce Control List; or
                    (B) services, software, or hardware (other than 
                services, software, or hardware for end-users owned or 
                controlled by the Government of Iran) that are--
                          (i) necessarily and ordinarily incident to 
                      communications; or
                          (ii) designated as--
                                    (I) EAR99; or
                                    (II) Export Control Classification 
                                Number 5A992.c or 5D992.c, and 
                                classified in accordance with section 
                                740.17 of title 15 Code of Federal 
                                Regulations; and
                          (iii) subject to a general license issued by 
                      the Department of Commerce or Department of 
                      Treasury.

    (e) National Interest Waiver.--The Secretary of Commerce may waive 
the requirements imposed under this section if the Secretary--
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determines that the waiver is 
        in the national interests of the United States; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>> submits to the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and 
        the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate a report explaining which requirements are being waived 
        and the reasons for the waiver.

    (f) Sunset.--The authority provided under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of 
this division.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Commerce Control List'' means the list 
        maintained pursuant to part 744 of the Export Administration 
        Regulations;
            (2) the term ``covered Export Control Classification 
        Number'' means an Export Control Classification Number in 
        product group D or E of Category 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9 of the 
        Commerce Control List;
            (3) the terms ``Export Administration Regulations'', 
        ``export'', ``reexport'', and ``in-country transfer'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 1742 of the Export Control 
        Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801); and
            (4) the terms ``direct product'', ``technology'', 
        ``software'', ``major component'', ``knowledge'', 
        ``production'', ``development'',

[[Page 138 STAT. 988]]

        ``part'', ``component'', ``equipment'', and ``government end 
        users'' have the meanings given those terms in section 734.9 or 
        part 772 of the Export Administration Regulations, as the case 
        may be.

  DIVISION O-- <<NOTE: Strengthening Tools to Counter the Use of Human 
 Shields Act.>> STRENGTHENING TOOLS TO COUNTER THE USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS 
ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Strengthening Tools to Counter 
the Use of Human Shields Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>> STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States to fully implement and 
enforce sanctions against terrorist organizations and other malign 
actors that use innocent civilians as human shields.
SEC. 3. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF SANCTIONING THE USE OF 
                    CIVILIANS AS DEFENSELESS SHIELDS ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 3 of the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians 
as Defenseless Shields Act (Public Law 115-348; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) <<NOTE: President. Effective 
        date. Determination.>> Each foreign person that the President 
        determines, on or after the date of the enactment of the 
        Strengthening Tools to Counter the Use of Human Shields Act--
                    ``(A) is a member of Palestine Islamic Jihad or is 
                knowingly acting on behalf of Palestine Islamic Jihad; 
                and
                    ``(B) knowingly orders, controls, or otherwise 
                directs the use of civilians protected as such by the 
                law of war to shield military objectives from attack.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) 
        as subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:

    ``(e) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> Congressional Requests.--Not 
later than 120 days after receiving a request from the chairman and 
ranking member of one of the appropriate congressional committees with 
respect to whether a foreign person meets the criteria of a person 
described in subsection (b) or (c), the President shall--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determine if the person meets 
        such criteria; and
            ``(2) submit a written justification to the chairman and 
        ranking member detailing whether or not the President imposed or 
        intends to impose sanctions described in subsection (b) or (c) 
        with respect to such person.''.

    (b) Definitions.--Section 4 of the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians 
as Defenseless Shields Act (Public Law 115-348; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Palestine islamic jihad.--The term `Palestine Islamic 
        Jihad' means--

[[Page 138 STAT. 989]]

                    ``(A) the entity known as Palestine Islamic Jihad 
                and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign 
                terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
                    ``(B) any person identified as an agent or 
                instrumentality of Palestine Islamic Jihad on the list 
                of specially designated nationals and blocked persons 
                maintained by the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the 
                Department of the Treasury, the property or interests in 
                property of which are blocked pursuant to the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701 et seq.).''.

    (c) Sunset.--Section 5 of the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as 
Defenseless Shields Act (Public Law 115-348; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2030''.
    (d) Severability.--The Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as 
Defenseless Shields Act (Public Law 115-348; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 6. SEVERABILITY.

    ``If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision 
to any person or circumstance, is found to be unconstitutional, the 
remainder of this Act, or the application of that provision to other 
persons or circumstances, shall not be affected.''.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON COUNTERING THE USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this division, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate a report that contains the following:
            (1) A description of the lessons learned from the United 
        States and its allies and partners in addressing the use of 
        human shields by terrorist organizations such as Hamas, 
        Hezbollah, Palestine Islamic Jihad, and any other organization 
        as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
            (2) A description of a specific plan and actions being taken 
        by the Department of Defense to incorporate the lessons learned 
        as identified in paragraph (1) into Department of Defense 
        operating guidance, relevant capabilities, and tactics, 
        techniques, and procedures to deter, counter, and address the 
        challenge posed by the use of human shields and hold accountable 
        terrorist organizations for the use of human shields.
            (3) A description of specific measures being developed and 
        implemented by the United States Government to mobilize and 
        leverage allied nations, including member nations of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), to deter, counter, and hold 
        accountable terrorist organizations for the use of human 
        shields.
            (4) The current status of joint exercises, doctrine 
        development, education, and training on countering the use of 
        human shields in multinational centers of excellence.
            (5) The current status of participation of members of the 
        Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian personnel in any 
        multinational center of excellence for the purposes of 
        countering the use of human shields.
            (6) The feasibility and advisability of beginning or 
        continuing participation of members of the Armed Forces and

[[Page 138 STAT. 990]]

        Department of Defense civilian personnel to promote the 
        integration of joint exercises, doctrine development, education, 
        and training on countering the use of human shields into 
        multinational centers of excellence.

    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``multinational center of 
excellence'' has the meaning given that term in section 344 of title 10, 
United States Code.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1710.>> CONFRONTING ASYMMETRIC 
                    AND MALICIOUS CYBER ACTIVITIES.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date. Sanctions. Determination.>> In 
General.--On and after the date that is 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this division, the President may impose the sanctions 
described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person that the 
Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and 
the Secretary of State determine, on or after such date of enactment--
            (1) is responsible for or complicit in, or has engaged 
        knowingly in, significant cyber-enabled activities originating 
        from, or directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial 
        part, outside the United States that are reasonably likely to 
        result in, or have materially contributed to, a significant 
        threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic 
        health or financial stability of the United States;
            (2) materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, 
        material, or technological support for, or goods or services to 
        or in support of, any activity described in this subsection or 
        any person whose property and interests in property are blocked 
        pursuant to this section;
            (3) is owned or controlled by, or has acted or purported to 
        act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person 
        whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 
        this section; or
            (4) has attempted to engage in any of the activities 
        described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).

    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) Inadmissibility to united states.--In the case of an 
        alien--
                    (A) ineligibility to receive a visa to enter the 
                United States or to be admitted to the United States; or
                    (B) if the individual has been issued a visa or 
                other documentation, revocation, in accordance with 
                section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1201(i)), of the visa or other documentation.
            (2) Blocking of property.--The blocking, in accordance with 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), of all transactions in all property and interests in 
        property of a foreign person if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
        United States person.

    (c) Requests by Appropriate Congressional Committees.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--Not later than 120 days 
        after receiving a request that meets the requirements of 
        paragraph (2) with respect to whether a foreign person has 
        engaged in an activity described in subsection (a), the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, in

[[Page 138 STAT. 991]]

        consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of 
        State shall--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determine if that 
                person has engaged in such an activity; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Classified 
                information. Reports.>> submit a classified or 
                unclassified report to the chairperson and ranking 
                member of the committee or committees that submitted the 
                request with respect to that determination that 
                includes--
                          (i) a statement of whether or not the 
                      Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with 
                      the Attorney General and the Secretary of State 
                      imposed or intends to impose sanctions with 
                      respect to the person;
                          (ii) if the President imposed or intends to 
                      impose sanctions, a description of those 
                      sanctions; and
                          (iii) if the President does not intend to 
                      impose sanctions, a description of actions that 
                      meet the threshold for the President to impose 
                      sanctions.
            (2) Requirements.--A request under paragraph (1) with 
        respect to whether a foreign person has engaged in an activity 
        described in subsection (a) shall be submitted to the President 
        in writing jointly by the chairperson and ranking member of one 
        of the appropriate congressional committees.

    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate.
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1701 note.>> SANCTIONS WITH 
                    RESPECT TO THREATS TO CURRENT OR FORMER UNITED 
                    STATES OFFICIALS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date. Determination.>> In General.--On and 
after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the President shall impose the sanctions described in 
subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President 
determines has, on or after such date of enactment, ordered, directed, 
or taken material steps to carry out any use of violence or has 
attempted or threatened to use violence against any current or former 
official of the Government of the United States.

    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) Inadmissibility to united states.--In the case of a 
        foreign person who is an individual--
                    (A) ineligibility to receive a visa to enter the 
                United States or to be admitted to the United States; or
                    (B) if the individual has been issued a visa or 
                other documentation, revocation, in accordance with 
                section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1201(i)), of the visa or other documentation.
            (2) Blocking of property.--The blocking, in accordance with 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), of all transactions in all property and interests in 
        property of a foreign person if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within

[[Page 138 STAT. 992]]

        the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
        control of a United States person.

    (c) Enforcement of Blocking of Property.--A person that violates, 
attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of a 
sanction described in subsection (b)(2) that is imposed by the President 
or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out such a sanction 
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) 
of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of sanctions 
under this section for renewable periods not to exceed 180 days if the 
President--
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determines that such a waiver 
        is in the vital national security interests of the United 
        States; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> not less than 15 days before the 
        granting of the waiver, submits to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a notice of and justification for the waiver.

    (e) Termination and Sunset.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination. Reports.>> Termination of 
        sanctions.--The President may terminate the application of 
        sanctions under this section with respect to a person if the 
        President determines and reports to the appropriate 
        congressional committees not later than 15 days before the 
        termination of the sanctions that--
                    (A) credible information exists that the person did 
                not engage in the activity for which sanctions were 
                imposed;
                    (B) the person has credibly demonstrated a 
                significant change in behavior, has paid an appropriate 
                consequence for the activity for which sanctions were 
                imposed, and has credibly committed to not engage in an 
                activity described in subsection (a) in the future; or
                    (C) the termination of the sanctions is in the vital 
                national security interests of the United States.
            (2) Sunset.--The requirement to impose sanctions under this 
        section shall terminate on the date that is 4 years after the 
        date of the enactment of this division.

    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary.

  DIVISION P-- <<NOTE: Illicit Captagon Trafficking Suppression Act of 
2023.>> ILLICIT CAPTAGON TRAFFICKING SUPPRESSION ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Illicit Captagon Trafficking 
Suppression Act of 2023''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Industrial scale production of the amphetamine-type 
        stimulant also known as captagon, and the illicit production

[[Page 138 STAT. 993]]

        of precursor chemicals, in territories held by the regime of 
        President Bashar al Assad in Syria are becoming more 
        sophisticated and pose a severe challenge to regional and 
        international security.
            (2) Elements of the Government of Syria are key drivers of 
        illicit trafficking in captagon, with ministerial-level 
        complicity in production and smuggling, using other armed groups 
        such as Hizballah for technical and logistical support in 
        captagon production and trafficking.
            (3) As affiliates of the Government of Syria and other 
        actors seek to export captagon, they undermine regional security 
        by empowering a broad range of criminal networks, militant 
        groups, mafia syndicates, and autocratic governments.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to target individuals, 
entities, and networks associated with the Government of Syria to 
dismantle and degrade the transnational criminal organizations, 
including narcotics trafficking networks, associated with the regime of 
President Bashar al Assad in Syria and Hizballah.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: President. 50 USC 1701 note.>> IMPOSITION OF 
                    SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ILLICIT CAPTAGON 
                    TRAFFICKING.

    (a) <<NOTE: Determination.>> In General.--The sanctions described in 
subsection (b) shall be imposed with respect to any foreign person the 
President determines, on or after the date of enactment of this 
division--
            (1) engages in, or attempts to engage in, activities or 
        transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a 
        significant risk of materially contributing to, the illicit 
        production and international illicit proliferation of captagon; 
        or
            (2) knowingly receives any property or interest in property 
        that the foreign person knows--
                    (A) constitutes or is derived from proceeds of 
                activities or transactions that have materially 
                contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially 
                contributing to, the illicit production and 
                international illicit proliferation of captagon; or
                    (B) was used or intended to be used to commit or to 
                facilitate activities or transactions that have 
                materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of 
                materially contributing to, the illicit production and 
                international illicit proliferation of captagon.

    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
        authorities granted under the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to 
        block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
        property of the foreign person if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or come within the possession or control of a United 
        States person.
            (2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described 
                in subsection (a) shall be--
                          (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                          (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                      documentation to enter the United States; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 994]]

                          (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or 
                      paroled into the United States or to receive any 
                      other benefit under the Immigration and 
                      Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                          (i) In general.--The visa or other entry 
                      documentation of any alien described in subsection 
                      (a) is subject to revocation regardless of the 
                      issue date of the visa or other entry 
                      documentation.
                          (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                      clause (i) shall, in accordance with section 
                      221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                      U.S.C. 1201(i))--
                                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                                    (II) cancel any other valid visa or 
                                entry documentation that is in the 
                                possession of the alien.

    (c) Penalties.--Any person that violates, or attempts to violate, 
subsection (b) or any regulation, license, or order issued pursuant to 
that subsection, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in 
subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that 
commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Waiver.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination.>> In general.--The President may 
        waive the application of sanctions under this section with 
        respect to a foreign person only if, not later than 15 days 
        prior to the date on which the waiver is to take effect, the 
        President submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        written determination and justification that the waiver is 
        important to the national security interests of the United 
        States.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the issuance of 
        a waiver under paragraph (1), and every 180 days thereafter 
        while the waiver remains in effect, the President shall brief 
        the appropriate congressional committees on the reasons for the 
        waiver.

    (e) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.
    (f) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall, not later than 120 
        days after the date of the enactment of this division, 
        promulgate regulations as necessary for the implementation of 
        this section.
            (2) Notification to congress.--Not later than 10 days before 
        the promulgation of regulations under this subsection, the 
        President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees 
        of the proposed regulations and the provisions of this section 
        that the regulations are implementing.

    (g) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--Sanctions under 
        this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the 
        reporting requirements under title V of the National Security 
        Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized 
        intelligence activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception to comply with international obligations and 
        for law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under

[[Page 138 STAT. 995]]

        this section shall not apply with respect to an alien if 
        admitting or paroling the alien into the United States is 
        necessary--
                    (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
                Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
                Nations and the United States, or other applicable 
                international obligations; or
                    (B) to carry out or assist authorized law 
                enforcement activity in the United States.
            (3) Humanitarian assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--Sanctions under this division shall 
                not apply to--
                          (i) the conduct or facilitation of a 
                      transaction for the provision of agricultural 
                      commodities, food, medicine, medical devices, 
                      humanitarian assistance, or for humanitarian 
                      purposes; or
                          (ii) transactions that are necessary for or 
                      related to the activities described in clause (i).
                    (B) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                          (i) Agricultural commodity.--The term 
                      ``agricultural commodity'' has the meaning given 
                      that term in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade 
                      Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
                          (ii) Medical device.--The term ``medical 
                      device'' has the meaning given the term ``device'' 
                      in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
                      Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
                          (iii) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the 
                      meaning given the term ``drug'' in section 201 of 
                      the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
                      U.S.C. 321).
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  DETERMINATIONS WITH RESPECT 
                    TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA, HIZBALLAH, AND 
                    NETWORKS AFFILIATED WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF 
                    SYRIA OR HIZBALLAH.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> In General.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this division, the President 
shall--
            (1) determine whether each foreign person described in 
        subsection (b) meets the criteria for sanctions under this 
        division; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report containing--
                    (A) <<NOTE: List.>> a list of all foreign persons 
                described in subsection (b) that meet the criteria for 
                imposition of sanctions under this division;
                    (B) for each foreign person identified pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A), a statement of whether sanctions have 
                been imposed or will be imposed within 30 days of the 
                submission of the report; and
                    (C) with respect to any person identified pursuant 
                to subparagraph (A) for whom sanctions have not been 
                imposed and will not be imposed within 30 days of the 
                submission of the report, the specific authority under 
                which otherwise applicable sanctions are being waived, 
                have otherwise been determined not to apply, or are not 
                being imposed and a complete justification of the 
                decision to waive or otherwise not apply such sanctions.

[[Page 138 STAT. 996]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Maher Al Assad. Imad Abu Zureiq. Amer Taysir 
Khiti. Taher al-Kayyali. Raji Falhout. Mohammed Asif Issa 
Shalish. Abdellatif Hamid. Mustafa Al Masalmeh.>> Foreign Persons 
Described.--The foreign persons described in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Maher Al Assad.
            (2) Imad Abu Zureiq.
            (3) Amer Taysir Khiti.
            (4) Taher al-Kayyali.
            (5) Raji Falhout.
            (6) Mohammed Asif Issa Shalish.
            (7) Abdellatif Hamid.
            (8) Mustafa Al Masalmeh.
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Financial Services, and the Committee on the 
                Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and 
                the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
            (2) Captagon.--The term ``captagon'' means any compound, 
        mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of a 
        stimulant in schedule I or II of section 202 of the Controlled 
        Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), including--
                    (A) amphetamine, methamphetamine, and fenethylline;
                    (B) any immediate precursor or controlled substance 
                analogue of such a stimulant, as defined in section 102 
                of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); and
                    (C) any isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of 
                isomers, esters, and ethers of such a stimulant, 
                whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, 
                and salts is possible within the specific chemical 
                designation.
            (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
                    (A) means an individual or entity that is not a 
                United States person; and
                    (B) includes a foreign state (as such term is 
                defined in section 1603 of title 28, United States 
                Code).
            (4) Illicit proliferation.--The term ``illicit 
        proliferation'' refers to any illicit activity to produce, 
        manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or 
        transport.
            (5) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (6) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
        means--
                    (A) a United States citizen;
                    (B) a permanent resident alien of the United States;
                    (C) an entity organized under the laws of the United 
                States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, 
                including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
                    (D) a person in the United States.

[[Page 138 STAT. 997]]

   DIVISION Q-- <<NOTE: End Financing for Hamas and State Sponsors of 
Terrorism Act.>> END FINANCING FOR HAMAS AND STATE SPONSORS OF TERRORISM 
ACT
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``End Financing for Hamas and 
State Sponsors of Terrorism Act''.
SEC. 2. REPORT ON FINANCING FOR HAMAS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
division, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report 
(which shall be in unclassified form but may include a classified annex) 
that includes--
            (1) <<NOTE: Analysis.>> an analysis of the major sources of 
        financing to Hamas;
            (2) a description of United States and multilateral efforts 
        to disrupt illicit financial flows involving Hamas;
            (3) <<NOTE: Evaluation.>> an evaluation of United States 
        efforts to undermine the ability of Hamas to finance armed 
        hostilities against Israel; and
            (4) <<NOTE: Implementation plan.>> an implementation plan 
        with respect to the multilateral strategy described in section 
        3.
SEC. 3. MULTILATERAL STRATEGY TO DISRUPT HAMAS FINANCING.

    The Secretary of the Treasury, through participation in the G7, and 
other appropriate fora, shall develop a strategy in coordination with 
United States allies and partners to ensure that Hamas is incapable of 
financing armed hostilities against Israel.

    DIVISION R-- <<NOTE: Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act of 
2024.>> HOLDING IRANIAN LEADERS ACCOUNTABLE ACT
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Holding Iranian Leaders 
Accountable Act of 2024''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Iran is characterized by high levels of official and 
        institutional corruption, and substantial involvement by Iran's 
        security forces, particularly the Islamic Revolutionary Guard 
        Corps (IRGC), in the economy.
            (2) The Department of Treasury in 2019 designated the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran's financial sector as a jurisdiction of 
        primary money laundering concern, concluding, ``Iran has 
        developed covert methods for accessing the international 
        financial system and pursuing its malign activities, including 
        misusing banks and exchange houses, operating procurement 
        networks that utilize front or shell companies, exploiting 
        commercial shipping, and masking illicit transactions using 
        senior officials, including those at the Central Bank of Iran 
        (CBI).''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 998]]

            (3) In June 2019, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) 
        urged all jurisdictions to require increased supervisory 
        examination for branches and subsidiaries of financial 
        institutions based in Iran. The FATF later called upon its 
        members to introduce enhanced relevant reporting mechanisms or 
        systematic reporting of financial transactions, and require 
        increased external audit requirements, for financial groups with 
        respect to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in 
        Iran.
            (4) According to the State Department's ``Country Reports on 
        Terrorism'' in 2021, ``Iran continued to be the leading state 
        sponsor of terrorism, facilitating a wide range of terrorist and 
        other illicit activities around the world. Regionally, Iran 
        supported acts of terrorism in Bahrain, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, 
        and Yemen through proxies and partner groups such as Hizballah 
        and Hamas.''.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  REPORT ON FINANCIAL 
                    INSTITUTIONS AND ASSETS CONNECTED TO CERTAIN 
                    IRANIAN OFFICIALS.

    (a) <<NOTE: President.>> Financial Institutions and Assets Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this division, and every 2 years thereafter, 
        the President shall submit a report to the appropriate Members 
        of Congress containing--
                    (A) the estimated total funds or assets that are 
                under direct or indirect control by each of the natural 
                persons described under subsection (b), and a 
                description of such funds or assets, except that the 
                President may limit coverage of the report to not fewer 
                than 5 of such natural persons in order to meet the 
                submission deadline described under this paragraph;
                    (B) a description of how such funds or assets were 
                acquired, and how they have been used or employed;
                    (C) <<NOTE: List.>> a list of any non-Iranian 
                financial institutions that--
                          (i) maintain an account in connection with 
                      funds or assets described in subparagraph (A); or
                          (ii) knowingly provide significant financial 
                      services to a natural person covered by the 
                      report; and
                    (D) a description of any illicit or corrupt means 
                employed to acquire or use such funds or assets.
            (2) Exemptions.--The requirements described under paragraph 
        (1) may not be applied with respect to a natural person or a 
        financial institution, as the case may be, if the President 
        determines:
                    (A) The funds or assets described under subparagraph 
                (A) of paragraph (1) were acquired through legal or 
                noncorrupt means.
                    (B) The natural person has agreed to provide 
                significant cooperation to the United States for an 
                important national security or law enforcement purpose 
                with respect to Iran.
                    (C) A financial institution that would otherwise be 
                listed in the report required by paragraph (1) has 
                agreed to--
                          (i) no longer maintain an account described 
                      under subparagraph (C)(i) of paragraph (1);

[[Page 138 STAT. 999]]

                          (ii) no longer provide significant financial 
                      services to a natural person covered by the 
                      report; or
                          (iii) provide significant cooperation to the 
                      United States for an important national security 
                      or law enforcement purpose with respect to Iran.
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Waiver.--The President may waive 
        for up to 1 year at a time any requirement under paragraph (1) 
        with respect to a natural person or a financial institution 
        after reporting in writing to the appropriate Members of 
        Congress that the waiver is in the national interest of the 
        United States, with a detailed explanation of the reasons 
        therefor.

    (b) Persons Described.--The natural persons described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) The Supreme Leader of Iran.
            (2) The President of Iran.
            (3) The members of the Council of Guardians.
            (4) The members of the Expediency Council.
            (5) The Minister of Intelligence and Security.
            (6) The Commander and the Deputy Commander of the IRGC.
            (7) The Commander and the Deputy Commander of the IRGC 
        Ground Forces.
            (8) The Commander and the Deputy Commander of the IRGC 
        Aerospace Force.
            (9) The Commander and the Deputy Commander of the IRGC Navy.
            (10) The Commander of the Basij-e Mostaz'afin.
            (11) The Commander of the Qods Force.
            (12) The Commander in Chief of the Police Force.
            (13) The head of the IRGC Joint Staff.
            (14) The Commander of the IRGC Intelligence.
            (15) The head of the IRGC Imam Hussein University.
            (16) The Supreme Leader's Representative at the IRGC.
            (17) The Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the 
        IRGC Cooperative Foundation.
            (18) The Commander of the Khatam-al-Anbia Construction Head 
        Quarter.
            (19) The Chief Executive Officer of the Basij Cooperative 
        Foundation.
            (20) The head of the Political Bureau of the IRGC.
            (21) The senior leadership as determined by the President of 
        the following groups:
                    (A) Hizballah.
                    (B) Hamas.
                    (C) Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
                    (D) Kata'ib Hizballah.

    (c) Form of Report; Public Availability.--
            (1) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) and any 
        waiver under subsection (a)(3) shall be submitted in 
        unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
            (2) <<NOTE: Notification.>> Public availability.--The 
        Secretary shall make the unclassified portion of such report 
        public if the Secretary notifies the appropriate Members of 
        Congress that the publication is in the national interest of the 
        United States and would substantially promote--
                    (A) deterring or sanctioning official corruption in 
                Iran;

[[Page 138 STAT. 1000]]

                    (B) holding natural persons or financial 
                institutions listed in the report accountable to the 
                people of Iran;
                    (C) combating money laundering or the financing of 
                terrorism; or
                    (D) achieving any other strategic objective with 
                respect to the Government of Iran.
            (3) <<NOTE: Web posting.>> Format of publicly available 
        reports.--If the Secretary makes the unclassified portion of a 
        report public pursuant to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
        make it available to the public on the website of the Department 
        of the Treasury--
                    (A) in English, Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri; and
                    (B) in precompressed, easily downloadable versions 
                that are made available in all appropriate formats.

    (d) Report and Briefing on Iranian Assets and Licenses.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this division, the Secretary of the Treasury 
        shall submit to the appropriate members of Congress a report and 
        provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing--
                    (A) identifying--
                          (i) all assets of the Government of Iran or 
                      covered persons valued at more than $5,000,000 and 
                      blocked by the United States pursuant to any 
                      provision of law; and
                          (ii) for each such asset--
                                    (I) the country in which the asset 
                                is held;
                                    (II) the financial institution in 
                                which the asset is held; and
                                    (III) the approximate value of the 
                                asset; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: List.>> setting forth a list of all 
                general licenses, specific licenses, action letters, 
                comfort letters, statements of licensing policy, answers 
                to frequently asked questions, or other exemptions 
                issued by the Secretary with respect to sanctions 
                relating to Iran that are in effect as of the date of 
                the report.
            (2) Form.--
                    (A) Assets.--The report and briefing required by 
                paragraph (1) shall be submitted or provided, as the 
                case may be, in unclassified form.
                    (B) Exemptions.--The report and briefing required by 
                paragraph (1) shall be submitted or provided, as the 
                case may be, in classified form.
            (3) Covered person defined.--In this section, the term 
        ``covered person'' means--
                    (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of 
                Iran and is acting on behalf of the Government of Iran;
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of Iran or 
                otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government 
                of Iran; and
                    (C) an individual or entity that provides material, 
                tactical, operational, developmental, or financial 
                support to--
                          (i) the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps;
                          (ii) any agency or instrumentality of the 
                      armed forces of Iran;
                          (iii) any agency or instrumentality related to 
                      the nuclear program of Iran; or

[[Page 138 STAT. 1001]]

                          (iv) any organization designated as a foreign 
                      terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                      Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), 
                      including Hamas, Hezbollah, Palestinian Islamic 
                      Jihad, alQa'ida, and al-Shabaab.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN 
                    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In General.--Not later than the date that is 
90 days after submitting a report described under section 3(a)(1), the 
Secretary shall undertake the following with respect to a financial 
institution that is described under section 3(a)(1)(C) and listed in the 
report:
            (1) If the financial institution is a United States 
        financial institution, require the closure of any account 
        described in section 3(a)(1)(C)(i), and prohibit the provision 
        of significant financial services, directly or indirectly, to a 
        natural person covered by the report.
            (2) If the financial institution is a foreign financial 
        institution, actively seek the closure of any account described 
        in section 3(a)(1)(C)(i), and the cessation of significant 
        financial services to a natural person covered by the report, 
        using any existing authorities of the Secretary, as appropriate.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Suspension.--The Secretary may suspend the 
application of subsection (a) with respect to a financial institution 
upon reporting to the appropriate Members of Congress that the 
suspension is in the national interest of the United States, with a 
detailed explanation of the reasons therefor.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  EXCEPTIONS FOR NATIONAL 
                    SECURITY; IMPLEMENTATION AUTHORITY.

    The following activities shall be exempt from requirements under 
sections 3 and 4:
            (1) Any activity subject to the reporting requirements under 
        title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et 
        seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities of the 
        United States.
            (2) The admission of an alien to the United States if such 
        admission is necessary to comply with United States obligations 
        under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United 
        States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United 
        Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
        force November 21, 1947, or under the Convention on Consular 
        Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force 
        March 19, 1967, or other applicable international obligations of 
        the United States.
            (3) The conduct or facilitation of a transaction for the 
        sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical 
        devices to Iran or for the provision of humanitarian assistance 
        to the people of Iran, including engaging in a financial 
        transaction relating to humanitarian assistance or for 
        humanitarian purposes or transporting goods or services that are 
        necessary to carry out operations relating to humanitarian 
        assistance or humanitarian purposes.
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  SUNSET.

    The provisions of this division shall have no force or effect on the 
earlier of--

[[Page 138 STAT. 1002]]

            (1) the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of 
        this division; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports. Iran.>> 30 days after the Secretary 
        reports in writing to the appropriate Members of Congress that--
                    (A) Iran is not a jurisdiction of primary money 
                laundering concern; or
                    (B) the Government of Iran is providing significant 
                cooperation to the United States for the purpose of 
                preventing acts of international terrorism, or for the 
                promotion of any other strategic objective that is 
                important to the national interest of the United States, 
                as specified in the report by the Secretary.
SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this division:
            (1) Appropriate members of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
        Members of Congress'' means the Speaker and Minority Leader of 
        the House of Representatives, the Majority Leader and Minority 
        Leader of the Senate, the Chairman and Ranking Member of the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives, and the Chairman and 
        Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
        Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
            (2) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means a United States financial institution or a 
        foreign financial institution.
            (3) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign 
        financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 561.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (4) Funds.--The term ``funds'' means--
                    (A) cash;
                    (B) equity;
                    (C) any other asset whose value is derived from a 
                contractual claim, including bank deposits, bonds, 
                stocks, a security as defined in section 2(a) of the 
                Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)), or a security 
                or an equity security as defined in section 3(a) of the 
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)); and
                    (D) anything else that the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
            (5) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
            (7) United states financial institution.--The term ``United 
        States financial institution'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``U.S. financial institution'' under section 561.309 of title 
        31, Code of Federal Regulations.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1003]]

  DIVISION S-- <<NOTE: Iran-China Energy Sanctions Act of 2023.>> IRAN-
CHINA ENERGY SANCTIONS ACT OF 2023
SEC. 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8501 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Iran-China Energy Sanctions Act 
of 2023''.
SEC. 2. SANCTIONS ON FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WITH RESPECT 
                    TO THE PURCHASE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS AND 
                    UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES FROM IRAN.

    Section 1245(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a(d)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) Applicability of sanctions with respect to chinese 
        financial institutions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For the purpose of paragraph 
                (1)(A), a `significant financial transaction' shall 
                include, based on relevant facts and circumstances, any 
                transaction--
                          ``(i) by a Chinese financial institution 
                      (without regard to the size, number, frequency, or 
                      nature of the transaction) involving the purchase 
                      of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran; and
                          ``(ii) by a foreign financial institution 
                      (without regard to the size, number, frequency, or 
                      nature of the transaction) involving the purchase 
                      of Iranian unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), UAV 
                      parts, or related systems.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Deadline. Time 
                period. President.>> Determination required.--Not later 
                than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                paragraph and every year thereafter for 5 years, the 
                President shall--
                          ``(i) determine whether any--
                                    ``(I) Chinese financial institution 
                                has engaged in a significant financial 
                                transaction as described in paragraph 
                                (1)(A)(i); and
                                    ``(II) financial institution has 
                                engaged in a significant financial 
                                transaction as described in paragraph 
                                (1)(A)(ii); and
                          ``(ii) transmit the determination under clause 
                      (i) to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                      Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                      Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign 
                      Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
                      and Urban Affairs of the Senate.''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1004]]

                      DIVISION T--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 1. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of division D 
and each subsequent division of this Act shall not be entered on either 
PAYGO scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory 
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of division D 
and each subsequent division of this Act shall not be entered on any 
PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 
71 (115th Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of division D and 
each subsequent division of this Act shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
            (2) for purposes of an allocation to the Committee on 
        Appropriations pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974; and
            (3) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.

    Approved April 24, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 815:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 169 (2023):
                                    Mar. 7, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 170 (2024):
                                    Feb. 9-12, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    Apr. 20, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment with an amendment 
                                        pursuant to H. Res. 1160.
                                    Apr. 23, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>