[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3756 Reported in Senate (RS)]





                                                       Calendar No. 510

104th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3756

                          [Report No. 104-330]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 23, 1996

                        Reported with amendments





                                                       Calendar No. 510
104th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3756

                          [Report No. 104-330]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 18, 1996

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             July 23, 1996

                Reported by Mr. Shelby, with amendments
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the 
United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, 
and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1997, and for other purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $150,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate; <DELETED>$108,447,000 
</DELETED>$111,348,000: Provided, That up to $500,000 shall be made 
available to implement section 528 of this Act.

                         Automation Enhancement

                      including transfer of funds

    For the development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$27,100,000, of which $15,000,000 shall be available to the United 
States Customs Service for the Automated Commercial Environment 
project, and of which $5,600,000 shall be available to the 
<DELETED>United States Customs Service </DELETED>Departmental offices 
for the International Trade Data System: Provided, That these funds 
shall remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That 
these funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as 
necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, 
bureaus, and other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds shall be used to 
support or supplement Internal Revenue Service appropriations for 
Information Systems and Tax Systems Modernization<DELETED>:-Provided 
further, That none of the funds available for the Automated Commercial 
Environment or the International Trade Data System may be obligated 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations</DELETED>.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury; $29,319,000 $30,153,000.

        <DELETED>Office of Professional Responsibility</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

             <DELETED>including transfer of funds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Professional 
Responsibility, including purchase and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, up to $3,000,000, to be derived through transfer from the 
United States Customs Service, salaries and expenses appropriation: 
Provided, That none of the funds shall be obligated without the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>

          Treasury Buildings and Annex Repair and Restoration

                      including transfer of funds

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, <DELETED>the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms National Laboratory Center and the Fire Investigation Research 
and Development Center, and the Rowley Secret Service Training Center, 
$22,892,000 </DELETED>$43,684,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That <DELETED>funds for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms National Laboratory Center and the Fire Investigation Research 
and Development Center and the Rowley Secret Service Training Center 
shall not be available until a prospectus authorizing such facilities 
is approved by the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure: Provided further, That </DELETED>funds previously made 
available under this title for the Secret Service Headquarter's 
building shall be transferred to the Secret Service Acquisition, 
Construction, Improvement and Related Expenses appropriation.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement; $22,387,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of the 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network may procure up to $500,000 in 
specialized, unique, or novel automatic data processing equipment, 
ancillary equipment, software, services, and related resources from 
commercial vendors without regard to otherwise applicable procurement 
laws and regulations and without full and open competition, utilizing 
procedures best suited under the circumstances of the procurement to 
efficiently fulfill the agency's requirements: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure personal 
services contracts.

               Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund

    <DELETED>For necessary expenses of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $7,500,000 
shall be made available for the development of a Federal wireless 
communication system, to be derived from deposits in the Fund 
</DELETED>For necessary expenses of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as 
authorized by Public Law 102-393, not to exceed $10,000,000, to be 
derived from deposits in the fund: Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Treasury is authorized to receive all unavailable collections 
transferred from the Special Forfeiture Fund established by section 
6073 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1509) by the 
Director of the Office of Drug Control Policy as a deposit into the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund (31 U.S.C. 9703(a)).

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                      including transfer of funds

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, as follows:
    (a) As authorized by section 190001(e), <DELETED>$89,800,000 
</DELETED>$112,000,000, of which <DELETED>$15,005,000 
</DELETED>$38,900,000 shall be available to the United States Customs 
Service; of which <DELETED>$47,624,000 </DELETED>$31,450,000 shall be 
available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, of which 
<DELETED>$2,500,000 </DELETED>$3,000,000 shall be available for 
administering the Gang Resistance Education and Training program, of 
which <DELETED>$3,662,000 </DELETED>$4,150,000 shall be available for 
ballistics technologies, including the purchase, maintenance and 
upgrading of equipment and of which <DELETED>$41,462,000 
</DELETED>$29,500,000 shall be available to enhance training and 
purchase equipment and services; <DELETED>of which $5,971,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary as authorized by section 732 of Public Law 
104-132; </DELETED>of which $1,000,000 shall be available to the 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network; of which <DELETED>$20,200,000 
</DELETED>$24,500,000 shall be available to the United States Secret 
Service, of which no less than $1,000,000 shall be available for a 
grant for activities related to the investigations of missing and 
exploited children; of which $3,150,000 shall be available to the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center until expended; and of which 
$13,000,000 shall be available to the Federal Drug Control Programs, 
High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program only if additional areas 
are designated and consultation has been completed with the Committees 
on Appropriation.
    (b) As authorized by section 32401, <DELETED>$7,200,000 
</DELETED>$8,000,000, for disbursement through grants, cooperative 
agreements or contracts, to local governments for Gang Resistance 
Education and Training: Provided, That notwithstanding sections 32401 
and 310001, such funds shall be allocated only to the affected State 
and local law enforcement and prevention organizations participating in 
such projects.

                        Treasury Franchise Fund

    There is hereby established in the Treasury a franchise fund pilot, 
as authorized by section 403 of Public Law 103-356, to be available as 
provided in such section for expenses and equipment necessary for the 
maintenance and operation of such financial and administrative support 
services as the Secretary determines may be performed more 
advantageously as central services: Provided, That any inventories, 
equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to be provided 
by such fund, either on hand or on order, less the related liabilities 
or unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made for the purpose of 
providing capital, shall be used to capitalize such fund: Provided 
further, That such fund shall be reimbursed or credited with the 
payments, including advanced payments, from applicable appropriations 
and funds available to the Department and other Federal agencies for 
which such administrative and financial services are performed, at 
rates which will recover all expenses of operation, including accrued 
leave, depreciation of fund plant and equipment, amortization of 
Automatic Data Processing (ADP) software and systems, and an amount 
necessary to maintain a reasonable operating reserve, as determined by 
the Secretary: Provided further, That such fund shall provide services 
on a competitive basis: Provided further, That an amount not to exceed 
4 percent of the total annual income to such fund may be retained in 
the fund for fiscal year 1997 and each fiscal year thereafter, to 
remain available until expended, to be used for the acquisition of 
capital equipment and for the improvement and implementation of 
Treasury financial management, ADP, and other support systems: Provided 
further, That no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, 
amounts in excess of this reserve limitation shall be deposited as 
miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury: Provided further, That such 
franchise fund pilot shall terminate pursuant to section 403(f) of 
Public Law 103-356.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and 
enhancing community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed 
$9,500 for official reception and representation expenses; room and 
board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
<DELETED>$51,681,000 </DELETED>$52,242,000, of which 
<DELETED>$9,423,000 </DELETED>$9,884,000 for materials and support 
costs of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available 
until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the Center is authorized to 
accept and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy<DELETED>:-
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be 
available for training United States Postal Service law enforcement 
personnel and Postal police officers, at the discretion of the 
Director; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; training of private sector security officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training at the Center</DELETED>: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be 
available, at the discretion of the Director, for: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; training of private sector security officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training at the Center: Provided 
further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from agencies receiving training at the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, except that total obligations 
at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary 
resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided further, 
That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to 
provide short term medical services for students undergoing training at 
the Center.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
<DELETED>$18,884,000 </DELETED>$19,884,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
<DELETED>$191,799,000 </DELETED>$196,338,000, of which not to exceed 
$14,277,000 shall remain available until expended for systems 
modernization initiatives. In addition, $90,000, to be derived from the 
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to reimburse the Service for 
administrative and personnel expenses for financial management of the 
Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available for systems modernization 
initiatives may not be obligated until the Commissioner of the 
Financial Management Service has submitted, and the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate have approved, a report that 
identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems investments 
planned for fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the development 
and implementation of all projects included in the systems investment 
plan, and a systems architecture plan.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 650 vehicles for police-
type use for replacement only and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
hire of aircraft; and services of expert witnesses at such rates as may 
be determined by the Director; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to the National 
Response Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson incident 
requires an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to remain 
overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed $12,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses; for training of State 
and local law enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, 
including training in connection with the training and acquisition of 
canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or without 
reimbursement; <DELETED>$389,982,000 </DELETED>$395,597,000, of which 
$12,011,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available for 
arson investigations, with priority assigned to any <DELETED>arson 
involving </DELETED>arson, explosion or violence against religious 
institutions; which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of 
which $1,000,000 shall be available for the equipping of any vessel, 
vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for official use by a State 
or local law enforcement agency if the conveyance will be used in drug-
related joint law enforcement operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms and for the payment of overtime salaries, travel, 
fuel, training, equipment, and other similar costs of State and local 
law enforcement officers that are incurred in joint operations with the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided, That no funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer the 
functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms to other agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending 
on September 30, 1997: Provided further, That no funds appropriated 
herein shall be available for salaries or administrative expenses in 
connection with consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of 
the Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and 
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to 
pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the United States to implement an amendment or amendments 
to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' 
in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it 
existed on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act upon 
applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c) <DELETED>and the inability of the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms to process or act upon such applications for 
felons convicted of a violent crime, firearms violations, or drug-
related crimes shall not be subject to judicial review</DELETED>: 
Provided further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and 
act upon applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal 
firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c)<DELETED>:-Provided 
further, That no funds in this Act may be used to provide ballistics 
imaging equipment to State or local authorities who have obtained 
similar equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy</DELETED>: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
aircraft and spare parts owned and operated by the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms shall be transferred to the United States Customs 
Service<DELETED>:-Provided further, That no funds under this heading 
shall be available to conduct a reduction in force</DELETED>: Provided 
further, That no funds available for separation incentive payments as 
authorized by section 525 of this Act may be obligated without the 
advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That no funds under this Act may be used to 
electronically retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
923(g)(4) by name or any personal identification code.

                         laboratory facilities

    For necessary expenses for design of a new facility or facilities, 
to house the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms National 
Laboratory Center and the Fire Investigation Research and Development 
Center, not to exceed 185,000 occupiable square feet, $6,978,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That these funds shall not 
be available until a prospectus of authorization for the Laboratory 
Facilities is approved by the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public 
Works.

                     United States Customs Service

                         salaries and expenses

                      including transfer of funds

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase of up to 1,000 motor vehicles of which 960 are for 
replacement only, including 990 for police-type use and commercial 
operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with individuals for 
personal services abroad; not to exceed <DELETED>$20,000 
</DELETED>$30,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
and awards of compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act 
enforced by the United States Customs Service; <DELETED>$1,489,224,000 
(increased by $500,000) (reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $2,000,000); 
of which $65,000,000 shall be available until expended for Operation 
Hardline; of which $28,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
expenses associated with Operation Gateway; of which up to $3,000,000 
shall be available for transfer to the Office of Professional 
Responsibility</DELETED> $1,421,543,000; and of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject 
to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act 
of 1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that 
Account; of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for 
payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations, 
and not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
research and not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available until expended 
for conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081 and up to 
$6,000,000 shall be available until expended for the procurement of 
automation infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and 
installation: Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard 
to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year<DELETED>:-Provided further, That the United States Custom Service 
shall implement the General Aviation Telephonic Entry program within 30 
days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That no funds under 
this heading shall be available to conduct a reduction in force: 
Provided further, That no funds available for separation incentive 
payments as authorized by section 525 of this Act may be obligated 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations</DELETED>: Provided further, That the Spirit of St. 
Louis Airport in St. Louis County, Missouri, shall be designated a port 
of entry<DELETED>:-Provided further, That no funds under this Act may 
be used to provide less than 30 days public notice for any change in 
apparel regulations</DELETED>: Provided further, That $750,000 shall be 
available for additional part-time and temporary positions in the 
Honolulu Customs District.

    operation and maintenance, air and marine interdiction programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs, the operations of which include: the interdiction of 
narcotics and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and 
other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement or 
administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts; $83,363,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, Department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 1997 without the prior approval of the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                      air interdiction procurement

    For the purchase and restoration of aircraft, marine vessels and 
air surveillance equipment for the Customs air and marine interdiction 
programs, <DELETED>$28,000,000 </DELETED>$45,000,000: Provided, That 
such resources shall not be available until September 30, 1997, and 
shall remain available until expended.

                   customs services at small airports

                  (to be derived from fees collected)

    Such sums as may be necessary for expenses for the provision of 
Customs services at certain small airports or other facilities when 
authorized by law and designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
including expenditures for the salary and expenses of individuals 
employed to provide such services, to be derived from fees collected by 
the Secretary pursuant to section 236 of Public Law 98-573 for each of 
these airports or other facilities when authorized by law and 
designated by the Secretary, and to remain available until expended.

                   harbor maintenance fee collection

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States; $169,735,000: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein 
from the General Fund for fiscal year 1997 shall be reduced by not more 
than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 1997 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$165,335,000.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; including processing tax returns; revenue 
accounting; providing assistance to taxpayers, management services, and 
inspection; including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only 
for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Commissioner; <DELETED>$1,722,985,000 
</DELETED>$1,728,840,000, of which up to $3,700,000 shall be for the 
Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, and of which not to exceed 
$25,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; tax and enforcement 
litigation; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; investigation and enforcement activities; securing 
unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; statistics of income 
and compliance research; the purchase (for police-type use, not to 
exceed 850), and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner; <DELETED>$4,052,586,000</DELETED>, 
$4,085,355,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 1999 for research.

                          information systems

                      including transfer of funds

    For necessary expenses for data processing and telecommunications 
support for Internal Revenue Service activities, including tax systems 
modernization (modernized developmental systems), modernized 
operational systems, services and compliance, and support systems; the 
hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; <DELETED>$1,077,450,000 </DELETED>$1,240,473,000, of 
which <DELETED>$424,500,000 </DELETED>$402,473,000 shall be available 
for tax systems modernization program activities: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated for non-Tax Systems Modernization, $200,000,000, and 
$66,000,000 of the funds appropriated for Tax Systems Modernization may 
not be obligated until the Secretary of the Treasury consults with the 
Committees on Appropriations and provides criteria explaining the needs 
and priorities of the respective programs, as well as, the deficiencies 
identified by the General Accounting Office: Provided further, That 
<DELETED>none of the funds made available for tax systems modernization 
shall be available until the Internal Revenue Service establishes a 
restructured contractual relationship with a commercial sector company 
</DELETED>to manage, integrate, test, and implement all portions of the 
tax systems modernization program, except that funds up to $59,100,000 
may be used to support a Government Program Management Office, 
<DELETED>not to exceed a total staffing of 50 individuals, 
</DELETED>and other necessary Program Management activities to include 
support from the Internal Revenue Service's Integration Support 
Contractor and Federal Research and Development Center: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for tax systems 
modernization may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to carry out 
activities associated with the development of a request for proposal 
and contract award, with a commercial sector company to manage, 
integrate, test and implement all portions of the tax systems 
modernization program without the approval of the Department of the 
Treasury's Modernization Management Board which shall assure that an 
adequate planning and business case analysis has been conducted and 
that the General Accounting Office's ``Best Practices'' for strategic 
information management have been followed except that funds shall be 
available for activities related to submission to and review by the 
Department's Modernization Management Board <DELETED>except that funds 
shall be available for the sharing of data and information and general 
oversight of the process by the Associate Commissioner of the Internal 
Revenue Service for Modernization, and such funds as may be necessary 
shall be transferred to the Department of Defense which will conduct 
all technical activities associated with the development of a request 
for proposal and contract award</DELETED>: Provided further, That none 
of these funds may be used to support in excess of 150 full-time 
equivalent positions in support of tax systems modernization: Provided 
further, That funds up to $2,000,000 may be used to support the 
Department's Modernization Management Board: Provided further, That 
these funds shall remain available until September 30, 1999.

                          information systems

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading for <DELETED>Tax 
Systems Modernization </DELETED>Information Systems in Public Law 104-
52, <DELETED>$100,000,000 </DELETED>$120,000,000 are rescinded, in 
Public Law 103-329, <DELETED>$51,685,000 </DELETED>$45,000,000 are 
rescinded, in Public Law 102-393, $2,421,000 are rescinded, and in 
Public Law 102-141, <DELETED>$20,341,000 </DELETED>$7,026,000 are 
rescinded.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Section 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to insure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
<DELETED>    Sec. 103. The funds provided in this Act for the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be used to provide as a minimum, the fiscal year 
1995 level of service, staffing, and funding for Taxpayer 
Services.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 104. No funds available in this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service for separation incentive payments as authorized by 
section 525 of this Act may be obligated without the advance approval 
of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 105. The Internal Revenue Service shall contract with 
an independent accounting firm to determine the revenue losses (if any) 
which would result from implementing H.R. 2450, as introduced in the 
104th Congress.</DELETED>

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase (not to exceed 702 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 665 shall be for replacement only), and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; and for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act: Provided, That approval is 
obtained in advance from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; for repairs, alterations, and minor construction at the 
James J. Rowley Secret Service Training Center; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That 3 U.S.C. 203(a) is amended by deleting ``but not 
exceeding twelve hundred in number''; <DELETED>$528,368,000 
</DELETED>$519,265,000, of which $1,200,000 shall be available as a 
grant for activities related to the investigations of missing and 
exploited children<DELETED>:-Provided further, That resources made 
available as a grant for activities related to the investigations of 
missing and exploited children shall not be available until September 
30, 1997, and shall remain available until expended</DELETED>.

      acquisition, construction, improvement, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, <DELETED>$31,298,000 </DELETED>$29,165,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds previously 
provided under the title, ``Treasury Buildings and Annex Repair and 
Restoration,'' for the Secret Service's Headquarters Building, shall be 
transferred to this account.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Section 111. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1997, shall be made in compliance with the 
reprogramming guidelines contained in the House and Senate reports 
accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 112. Appropriations to the Treasury Department in this Act 
shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; 
purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in foreign 
countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used overseas for 
the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the Department of 
State for the furnishing of health and medical services to employees 
and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 113. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
used in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax 
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of 
officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection 
with such collection, including any private sector employees under 
contract to the Internal Revenue Service, compiles with subsection (a) 
of section 805 (relating to communications in connection with debt 
collection), and section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the 
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 114. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute policies and 
procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer 
information.
    Sec. 115. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1997 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
<DELETED>    Sec. 116. Paragraph (3)(C) of section 9703(g) of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by striking in the third sentence ``and at the 
        end of each fiscal year thereafter'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by inserting in lieu thereof ``1994, 1995, and 
        1996''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by adding at the end the following new 
        sentence: ``At the end of fiscal year 1997, and at the end of 
        each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall reserve any 
        amounts that are required to be retained in the Fund to ensure 
        the availability of amounts in the subsequent fiscal year for 
        purposes authorized under subsection (a).''</DELETED>
    Sec. 117. Of the funds available to the Internal Revenue Service, 
$13,000,000 shall be made available to continue the private sector debt 
collection program which was initiated in fiscal year 1996 and 
$13,000,000 shall be transferred to the Departmental Offices 
appropriation to initiate a new private sector debt collection program: 
Provided, That the transfer provided herein shall be in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained in this Act.

<DELETED>priority placement, job placement, retraining, and counseling 
programs for u.s. treasury department employees affected by a reduction 
                           in force</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 118. (a) Definitions.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) For the purposes of this section, the term 
        ``agency'' means the United States Department of the 
        Treasury.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) For the purposes of this section, the term 
        ``eligible employee'' means any employee of the agency who--
        </DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) is scheduled to be separated from 
                service due to a reduction in force under--</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (i) regulations prescribed under 
                        section 3502 of title 5, United States Code; 
                        or</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (ii) procedures established under 
                        section 3595 of title 5, United States Code; 
                        or</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) is separated from service due to such 
                a reduction in force, but does not include--</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (i) an employee separated from 
                        service for cause on charges of misconduct or 
                        delinquency; or</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (ii) an employee who, at the time 
                        of separation, meets the age and service 
                        requirements for an immediate annuity under 
                        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
                        title 5, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Priority Placement Program.--Not later than 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the U.S. Department of the 
Treasury shall establish a priority placement program for eligible 
employees.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The priority placement program established under 
subsection (b) shall include provisions under which a vacant position 
shall not be filled by the appointment or transfer of any individual 
from outside of the agency if--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) there is then available any eligible employee 
        who applies for the position within 30 days of the agency 
        issuing a job announcement and is qualified (or can be trained 
        or retrained to become qualified within 90 days of assuming the 
        position) for the position; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the position is within the same commuting area 
        as the eligible employee's last-held position or 
        residence.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Job Placement and Counseling Services.--The head of 
the agency may establish a program to provide job placement and 
counseling services to eligible employees and their families.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Types of services.--A program established 
        under subsection (d) may include, is not limited to, such 
        services as--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) career and personal 
                counseling;</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) training and job search skills; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) job placement assistance, including 
                assistance provided through cooperative arrangements 
                with State and local employment services 
                offices.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (e) Referral of Eligible Employees to Private Sector 
Contractors.--Any contract related to the Internal Revenue Services' 
Tax Systems Modernization program shall contain a provision requiring 
that the contractor, in hiring employees for the performance of the 
contract, shall obtain referrals of eligible employees, who consent to 
such referral, from the priority placement or job placement programs 
established under this section.</DELETED>
    Sec. 119. Section 923(j) of title 18, U.S.C., is amended by 
striking the period after the last sentence, and inserting the 
following: ``, including the right of a licensee to conduct `curios or 
relics' firearms transfers and business away from their business 
premises with another licensee without regard as to whether the 
location of where the business is conducted is located in the State 
specified on the license of either licensee.''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1997''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                     Payments to the Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, <DELETED>$85,080,000 
</DELETED>$90,433,000: Provided, That mail for overseas voting and mail 
for the blind shall continue to be free: Provided further, That 6-day 
delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 
1983 level: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
the Postal Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, 
regulation, or policy of charging any officer or employee of any State 
or local child support enforcement agency, or any individual 
participating in a State or local program of child support enforcement, 
a fee for information requested or provided concerning an address of a 
postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in 
this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural and other 
small post offices in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1997.

TITLE  III--EXECUTIVE  OFFICE  OF  THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED 
                            TO THE PRESIDENT

                   Compensation of the President and

                         the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102, 
$250,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for 
as provided in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
newspapers, periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); not to exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, 
to be available for allocation within the Executive Office of the 
President; $40,193,000: Provided, That $420,000 of the funds 
appropriated may not be obligated until the Director of the Office of 
Administration has submitted, and the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate have approved, a report that identifies, 
evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems investments planned for 
fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the development and 
implementation of all projects included in the systems investment plan, 
and a systems architecture plan.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $7,827,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109-110, 112-114.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,280,000: Provided, That $150,000 
of the funds appropriated may not be obligated until the Director of 
the Office of Administration has submitted, and the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate have approved, a report that 
identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems investments 
planned for fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the development 
and implementation of all projects included in the systems investment 
plan, and a systems architecture plan.

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$324,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities: Provided further, That $8,000 of the 
funds appropriated may not be obligated until the Director of the 
Office of Administration has submitted for approval to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate a report that identifies, 
evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems investments planned for 
fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the development and 
implementation of all projects included in the systems investment plan, 
and a systems architecture plan.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,439,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$3,867,000: Provided, That $45,000 of the funds appropriated may not be 
obligated until the Director of the Office of Administration has 
submitted, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate 
have approved, a report that identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all 
computer systems investments planned for fiscal year 1997, a milestone 
schedule for the development and implementation of all projects 
included in the systems investment plan, and a systems architecture 
plan.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,648,000: Provided, That 
$3,000 of the funds appropriated may not be obligated until the 
Director of the Office of Administration has submitted, and the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate have approved, a 
report that identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems 
investments planned for fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the 
development and implementation of all projects included in the systems 
investment plan, and a systems architecture plan.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
$26,100,000, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
U.S.C. 107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles: Provided, That 
$340,700 of the funds appropriated may not be obligated until the 
Director of the Office of Administration has submitted, and the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate have approved, a 
report that identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all computer systems 
investments planned for fiscal year 1997, a milestone schedule for the 
development and implementation of all projects included in the systems 
investment plan, and a systems architecture plan.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $55,573,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35: 
Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall 
be applied only to the objects for which appropriations were made 
except as otherwise provided by law: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management and Budget 
may be used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing 
orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions of the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available for the Office 
of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering 
of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the House and 
Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That this proviso shall not apply to printed hearings released 
by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the House and 
Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision 
of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$34,838,000, of which $18,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended, consisting of $1,000,000 for policy research and evaluation 
and $17,000,000 for the Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects <DELETED>of which 
$1,000,000 shall be obligated for State conferences on model State drug 
laws</DELETED>: Provided, That the $17,000,000 for the Counter-Drug 
Technology Assessment Center shall be available for transfer to other 
Federal departments or agencies: Provided further, That the Office is 
authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real 
and personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
Office<DELETED>:-Provided further, That $2,500,000 of the funds 
available for the salaries and expenses of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy may not be obligated until the Director reaches 
agreement with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on a 
final fiscal year 1997 organizational plan</DELETED>: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to receive all 
unavailable collections transferred from the Special Forfeiture Fund 
established by section 6073 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (21 
U.S.C. 1509) by the Director of the Office of Drug Control Policy as a 
deposit into the Treasury Forfeiture Fund (31 U.S.C. 9703(a)).

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year; $1,000,000.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, 
<DELETED>$113,000,000 </DELETED>$103,000,000 for drug control 
activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, <DELETED>of which 
$3,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area in Lake County, Indiana; of which $2,000,000 shall be 
used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area for 
the Gulf Coast States of Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi; of which 
$5,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area dedicated to combating methamphetamine use, production 
and trafficking in a five State area including Iowa, Missouri, 
Nebraska, South Dakota, and Kansas; </DELETED>of which no less than 
<DELETED>$59,000,000 </DELETED>$52,000,000 shall be transferred to 
State and local entities for drug control activities; and of which up 
to <DELETED>$54,000,000 </DELETED>$51,000,000 may be transferred to 
Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be determined by the 
Director: Provided, That the funds made available under this head shall 
be obligated within 90 days of the date of enactment of this Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1997''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28; $1,800,000.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, <DELETED>$27,524,000 
</DELETED>$28,700,000, <DELETED>of which no less than $2,500,000 shall 
be available for internal automated data processing systems, and 
</DELETED>of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for 
reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $21,588,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

    For additional expenses necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), 
<DELETED>$209,193,000 </DELETED>$257,162,000, to be deposited into said 
Fund. The revenues and collections deposited into the Fund shall be 
available for necessary expenses of real property management and 
related activities not otherwise provided for, including operation, 
maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased buildings; 
rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration of leased 
premises; moving governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, approaches 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, taxes, and any other obligations for public buildings 
acquired by installment purchase and purchase contract, in the 
aggregate amount of <DELETED>$5,364,392,000 </DELETED>$5,412,361,000, 
of which (1) not to exceed <DELETED>$540,000,000 </DELETED>$657,724,000 
shall remain available until expended for construction of additional 
projects at locations <DELETED>as follows: Fresno, California, Federal 
Building and U.S. Courthouse; Denver, Colorado, U.S. Courthouse; 
District of Columbia, U.S. Courthouse Annex; Miami, Florida, U.S. 
Courthouse; Orlando, Florida, U.S. Courthouse; Covington, Kentucky, 
U.S. Courthouse; London, Kentucky, U.S. Courthouse; Babb, Montana, 
Piegan Border Station; Sweetgrass, Montana, Border Station; Las Vegas, 
Nevada, U.S. Courthouse; Brooklyn, New York, U.S. Courthouse; 
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. Courthouse; Youngstown, Ohio, U.S. Courthouse; 
Portland, Oregon, Consolidated Law Enforcement Federal Office Building; 
Erie, Pennsylvania, U.S. Courthouse; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
Department of Veterans Affairs--Federal Complex, phase II; Columbia, 
South Carolina, U.S. Courthouse; Corpus Christi, Texas, U.S. 
Courthouse; Salt Lake City, Utah, Moss Courthouse Annex and Alteration; 
Blaine, Washington, U.S. Border Station; Oroville, Washington, U.S. 
Border Station; Seattle, Washington, U.S. Courthouse; and, Sumas, 
Washington, U.S. Border Station, (Claim): Provided, That the total cost 
of the immediately foregoing United States Courthouse or United States 
Courthouse annex construction projects shall be reduced by no less than 
10 percent from the prospectus level estimate by improving design 
efficiencies, curtailing planned interior finishes requiring more 
efficient use of courtroom and library space, and by otherwise limiting 
space requirements: Provided further, That each of the immediately 
foregoing construction projects may not exceed the original authorized 
level for site acquisition, design, or construction, unless advanced 
approval is obtained from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That from funds available in the 
Federal Buildings Fund, $20,000,000 shall be available until expended 
for environmental clean up activities at the Southeast Federal Center 
in the District of Columbia </DELETED>and at maximum construction 
improvement costs (including funds for sites and expenses and 
associated design and construction services) as follows:
        New Construction:
        District of Columbia:
            Southeast Federal Center Site Preparation, $20,000,000
        Maryland:
            Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties--Food and Drug 
        Administration Consolidation, $13,000,000
        Montana:
            Babb, Piegan Border Station, $333,000
            Sweetgrass, Border Station, $1,066,000
        Nevada:
            Las Vegas, U.S. Courthouse, $96,011,000
        New York:
            Brooklyn, U.S. Courthouse, $187,179,000
        Ohio:
            Cleveland, U.S. Courthouse, $142,291,000
        Oregon:
            Portland, Consolidated Law Federal Office Building, 
        $86,000,000
        Pennsylvania:
            Philadelphia, Department of Veterans Affairs--Federal 
        Complex, phase II, $15,156,000
        Texas:
            Corpus Christi, U.S. Courthouse, $26,610,000
        Washington:
            Blaine, U.S. Border Station, $15,419,000
            Oroville, U.S. Border Station, $1,483,000
            Seattle, U.S. Courthouse, $17,740,000
            Sumas, U.S. Border Station, (Claim), $1,177,000
        Nationwide:
            Security Enhancements, various buildings, $24,259,000
            Non-prospectus Projects Program, $10,000,000:
Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 per centum unless 
advanced approval is obtained from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That all funds 
for direct construction projects shall expire on September 30, 1999, 
and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as 
to which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole 
or in part prior to such date: Provided further, That claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects, acquisitions of buildings and purchase contract projects 
pursuant to Public Law 92-313, be liquidated with prior notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate to the extent 
savings are effected in other such projects; <DELETED>(2) not to exceed 
$635,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for repairs and 
alterations which includes associated design and construction services, 
as follows: District of Columbia, Ariel Rios Building; District of 
Columbia, Department of Justice Building (Main), phase, 1; District of 
Columbia, Layfayette Building; District of Columbia, State Department 
Building; Honolulu, Hawaii, Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole Federal 
Building and U.S. Courthouse; Chicago, Illinois, Everett M. Dirksen 
Federal Building; Chicago, Illinois, John C. Kluczynski, Jr. Federal 
Building (IRS); Andover, Massachusetts, IRS Regional Service Center; 
Concord, New Hampshire, J.C. Cleveland Federal Building; Camden, New 
Jersey, U.S. Post Office-Courthouse; Albany, New York, James T. Foley 
Post Office-Courthouse; Brookhaven, New York, IRS Service Center; New 
York, New York, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building; Scranton, 
Pennsylvania, Federal Building-U.S. Courthouse; Providence, Rhode 
Island, Federal Building-U.S. Courthouse; Fort Worth, Texas, Federal 
Center; Nationwide repairs and alterations: Security Upgrades; 
Chlorofluorocarbons Program; Elevator Program; and, Energy Program: 
</DELETED>(2) not to exceed $616,990,000 shall remain available until 
expended, for repairs and alterations which includes associated design 
and construction services: Provided further, That the amounts provided 
in this or any prior Act for Repairs and Alterations may be used to 
fund costs associated with implementing security improvements to 
buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for security in 
accordance with current law and in compliance with the reprogramming 
guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the House and Senate: 
Provided further, That funds in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs 
and Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the 
amount by project as follows, except each project may be increased by 
an amount not to exceed 10 per centum unless advance approval is 
obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate 
of a greater amount:
        Repairs and alterations:
        District of Columbia:
            Ariel Rios Building, $62,740,000
        Hawaii:
            Honolulu, Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole Federal Building 
        and U.S. Courthouse, $4,140,000
        Illinois:
            Chicago, Everett M. Dirksen Federal Building, $18,844,000
            Chicago, John C. Kluczynski, Jr. Federal Building (IRS), 
        $13,414,000
        Louisiana:
            New Orleans, Customhouse, $3,500,000
        Massachusetts:
            Andover, IRS Regional Service Center, $812,000
        New Hampshire:
            Concord, J.C. Cleveland Federal Building, $8,251,000
        New Jersey:
            Camden, U.S. Post Office-Courthouse $11,096,000
        New York:
            Albany, James T. Foley Post Office-Courthouse, $3,880,000
            Brookhaven, IRS Service Center, $2,272,000
            New York, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, $13,651,000
        Pennsylvania:
            Scranton, Federal Building-U.S. Courthouse, $10,610,000
        Rhode Island:
            Providence, Federal Building-U.S. Courthouse, $8,209,000
        Texas:
            Fort Worth, Federal Center, $11,259,000
        Nationwide:
            Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $43,533,000
            Elevator Program, $17,100,000
            Energy Program, $20,000,000
            Security Enhancements, various buildings, $2,686,000
            Basic Repairs and Alterations, $360,000,000:
Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate: Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
prior Act for Repairs and Alterations may be used to fund costs 
associated with implementing security improvements to buildings 
necessary to meet the minimum standards for security in accordance with 
current law and in compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the 
appropriate Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That 
funds in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, 
for prospectus projects, be limited to the originally authorized 
amount, except each project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 
10 percent when advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That the difference between the funds appropriated and 
expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading 
``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and 
Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects<DELETED>:-Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary 
shall be made available for ongoing renovation and consolidation 
efforts at the National Veterinary Services Laboratory and a 
biocontainment facility at the National Animal Disease Center, as 
directed in Public Law 104-52</DELETED>: Provided further, That all 
funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects shall expire on 
September 30, 1999, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except 
funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds have 
been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided 
further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects: Provided further, That $5,700,000 of the funds provided under 
this heading in Public Law 103-329, for the IRS Service Center, 
Holtsville, New York, shall be available until September 30, 1998; (3) 
not to exceed $173,075,000 for installment acquisition payments 
including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That up to $1,500,000 shall be 
available for a design prospectus of the Federal Building and U.S. 
Courthouse located at 811 Grand Avenue in Kansas City, Missouri; 
<DELETED>(4) not to exceed $3,903,205,000, to remain available until 
expended, for building operations, leasing activities, and rental of 
space, of which up to $205,000,000 shall be available for security 
enhancements; </DELETED>(4) not to exceed $2,343,795,000 for rental of 
space which shall remain available until expended; and (5) not to 
exceed $1,532,465,000 for building operations which shall remain 
available until expended <DELETED>and (5) not to exceed $4,800,000 for 
the development and acquisition of automatic data processing equipment, 
software, and services for the Public Buildings Service which shall 
remain available until September 30, 1999 for transfer to accounts and 
in amounts as necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Public 
Buildings Service</DELETED>: Provided further, That funds available to 
the General Services Administration shall not be available for expenses 
in connection with any construction, repair, alteration, and 
acquisition project for which a prospectus, if required by the Public 
Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been approved, except that 
necessary funds may be expended for each project for required expenses 
in connection with the development of a proposed prospectus: Provided 
further, That funds provided in this Act under the heading ``Security 
Enhancements, various buildings'' may be used, by project in accordance 
with an approved prospectus<DELETED>:-Provided further, That the 
Administrator is authorized in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, to 
enter into and perform such leases, contracts, or other transactions 
with any agency or instrumentality of the United States, the several 
States, or the District of Columbia, or with any person, firm, 
association, or corporation, as may be necessary to implement the trade 
center plan at the Federal Triangle Project and is hereby granted all 
the rights and authorities of the former Pennsylvania Avenue 
Development Corporation (PADC) with regards to property transferred 
from PADC to the General Services Administration in fiscal year 1996: 
Provided further, That for the purposes of this authorization, 
buildings constructed pursuant to the purchase contract authority of 
the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings 
occupied pursuant to installment purchase contracts, and buildings 
under the control of another department or agency where alterations of 
such buildings are required in connection with the moving of such other 
department or agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under 
the control of the General Services Administration shall be considered 
to be federally owned buildings</DELETED>: Provided further, That funds 
available in the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency 
repairs when advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided further, That amounts 
necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government ownership or 
control as may be appropriate to enable the United States Secret 
Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
as amended, shall be available from such revenues and collections: 
Provided further, That revenues and collections and any other sums 
accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 1997, excluding reimbursements 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of 
<DELETED>$5,364,392,000 </DELETED>$5,412,361,000 shall remain in the 
Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

                         policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation  of surplus personal 
property; transportation management activities; procurement and supply 
management activities; Government-wide and internal responsibilities 
relating to automated data management, telecommunications, information 
resources management, and related technology activities; utilization 
survey, deed compliance inspection, appraisal, environmental and 
cultural analysis, and land use planning functions pertaining to excess 
and surplus real property; agency-wide policy direction; Board of 
Contract Appeals; accounting, records management, and other support 
services incident to adjudication of Indian Tribal Claims by the United 
States Court of Federal Claims; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; <DELETED>$109,091,000 </DELETED>$110,173,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, <DELETED>$33,274,000 
</DELETED>$33,863,000: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for payment for information and detection of fraud against 
the Government, including payment for recovery of stolen Government 
property: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for awards to employees of other Federal agencies and private 
citizens in recognition of efforts and initiatives resulting in 
enhanced Office of Inspector General effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,180,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

                   expenses, presidential transition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Presidential Transition Act 
of 1963, as amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), $5,600,000.

          general provisions--general services administration

    Section 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1997 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate.
    Sec. 404. Section 10 of the General Services Administration General 
Provisions, Public Law 100-440, dated September 22, 1988, is hereby 
repealed.
    Sec. 405. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 1998 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established by the General Services 
<DELETED>Administration, </DELETED>Administration and the Judicial 
Conference of the United States<DELETED>,-and the Office of Management 
and Budget </DELETED>and does not reflect the priorities of the 
Judicial Conference of the United States as set out in its approved 5-
year construction plan: Provided, That the request must be accompanied 
by a standardized courtroom utilization study of each facility to be 
replaced or expanded.
<DELETED>    Sec. 406. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to implement a plan for the Ronald Reagan Building (International 
Trade Center, Washington, D.C.) which would permit the Woodrow Wilson 
Center to pay the General Services Administration less than the rate 
per square foot assessment for space and services which is paid by 
other Federal entities.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 407. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay 
the requested rate per square foot assessment for space and services as 
determined by the General Services Administration in compliance with 
the Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-
313).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 408. The Administrator of the General Services is 
directed to ensure that the materials used for the facade on the United 
States Courthouse Annex, Savannah, Georgia project are compatible with 
the existing Savannah Federal Building-U.S. Courthouse fascade, in 
order to ensure compatibility of this new facility with the Savannah 
historic district and to ensure that the Annex will not endanger the 
National Landmark status of the Savannah historic district.</DELETED>
    Sec. 409. (a) Section 210 of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l)(1) The Administrator may establish, acquire space for, and 
equip flexiplace work telecommuting centers (in this subsection 
referred to as `telecommuting centers') for use by employees of Federal 
agencies, State and local governments, and the private sector in 
accordance with this subsection.
    ``(2) The Administrator may make any telecommuting center available 
for use by individuals who are not Federal employees to the extent the 
center is not being fully utilized by Federal employees. The 
Administrator shall give Federal employees priority in using the 
telecommuting centers.
    ``(3)(A) The Administrator shall charge user fees for the use of 
any telecommuting center. The amount of the user fee shall approximate 
commercial charges for comparable space and services except that in no 
instance shall such fee be less than that necessary to pay the cost of 
establishing and operating the center, including the reasonable cost of 
renovation and replacement of furniture, fixtures, and equipment.
    ``(B) Amounts received by the Administrator after September 30, 
1993, as user fees for use of any telecommuting center may be deposited 
into the Fund established under subsection (f) of this section and may 
be used by the Administrator to pay costs incurred in the establishment 
and operation of the center.
    ``(4) The Administrator may provide guidance, assistance, and 
oversight to any person regarding establishment and operation of 
alternative workplace arrangements, such as telecommuting, hoteling, 
virtual offices, and other distributive work arrangements.
    ``(5) In considering whether to acquire any space, quarters, 
buildings, or other facilities for use by employees of any executive 
agency, the head of that agency shall consider whether the need for the 
facilities can be met using alternative workplace arrangements referred 
to in paragraph (4).
    (b) Section 13 of the Public Building Act of 1959, as amended, (107 
Stat. 438; 40 U.S.C. 612) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(xi)'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``(xii)''; and
            (2) by striking ``and (x)'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``(x) telecommuting centers and (xi)''.
    Sec. 410. Section 6 of the General Services Administration General 
Provisions, Public Law 103-123, dated October 28, 1993, is hereby 
repealed.
    Sec. 411. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of General Services is authorized and directed to acquire 
the land bounded by S.W. First Avenue, S.W. Second Avenue, S.W. Main 
Street, and S.W. Madison Street, Portland, Oregon, for the purposes of 
constructing the proposed Law Enforcement Center on the site.

           John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board

    For necessary expenses to carry out the John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, $2,150,000.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, <DELETED>$23,297,000 
</DELETED>$24,549,000, together with not to exceed $2,430,000 for 
administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and records and related activities, as provided by law, and for 
expenses necessary for the review and declassification of documents, 
and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, <DELETED>$195,109,000 
</DELETED>$198,964,000: Provided, That the Archivist of the United 
States is authorized to use any excess funds available from the amount 
borrowed for construction of the National Archives facility, for 
expenses necessary to move into the facility.

    <DELETED>National Archives and Records Administration</DELETED>

                    <DELETED>(rescission)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public 
Law 104-52, $4,500,000 are rescinded.</DELETED>

             archives facilities and presidential libraries

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities 
and presidential libraries, <DELETED>$9,500,000 </DELETED>and to 
provide adequate storage for holdings, $18,229,000 to remain available 
until expended.

        national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
<DELETED>$4,000,000 </DELETED>$5,000,000 to remain available until 
expended.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 
Public Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $8,078,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; 
<DELETED>$86,576,000 </DELETED>$87,076,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the establishment of health promotion 
and disease prevention programs for Federal employees; and in addition 
<DELETED>$93,486,000 </DELETED>$94,736,000 for administrative expenses, 
to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printing materials for annuitants,  for the retirement 
and insurance programs, of which <DELETED>$2,250,000 
</DELETED>$3,500,000 shall be transferred at such times as the Office 
of Personnel Management deems appropriate, and shall remain available 
until expended for the costs of automating the retirement recordkeeping 
systems, together with remaining amounts authorized in previous Acts 
for the recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the provisions of this 
appropriation shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust 
funds as provided by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States 
Code: Provided further, That, except as may be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 
8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made from the Employees Health 
Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or other provider of health 
care services or supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies 
are provided to an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7-1320a-7a), from participation in 
any program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395 et seq.): Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining 
Unit of the Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to 
Executive Order 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like 
purpose: Provided further, That the President's Commission on White 
House Fellows, established by Executive Order 11183 of October 3, 1964, 
may, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, accept donations 
of money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

           general provisions--office of personnel management

    Sec. 421. The first sentence of section 1304(e)(1) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after ``basis'' the 
following ``, including personnel management services performed at the 
request of individual agencies (which would otherwise be the 
responsibility of such agencies), or at the request of nonappropriated 
fund instrumentalities''.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $8,645,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel Management's 
retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from the 
appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.

                             revolving fund

    For reducing any accumulated deficit in the accounts of the 
revolving fund established under 5 U.S.C. 1304(e), <DELETED>$4,755,000 
</DELETED>$5,000,000.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-75), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; <DELETED>$7,840,000 </DELETED>$8,116,000.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, <DELETED>$33,269,000 
</DELETED>$34,293,000: Provided, That travel expenses of the judges 
shall be paid upon the written certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Section 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
<DELETED>    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available to the General 
Services Administration pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 shall be obligated or 
expended after the date of enactment of this Act for the procurement by 
contract of any guard, elevator operator, messenger or custodial 
services if any permanent veterans preference employee of the General 
Services Administration at said date, would be terminated as a result 
of the procurement of such services, except that such funds may be 
obligated or expended for the procurement by contract of the covered 
services with sheltered workshops employing the severely handicapped 
under Public Law 92-28. Only if such workshops decline to contract for 
the provision of the covered services may the General Services 
Administration procure the services by competitive contract, for a 
period not to exceed 5 years. At such time as such competitive contract 
expires or is terminated for any reason, the General Services 
Administration shall again offer to contract for the services from a 
sheltered workshop prior to offering such services for competitive 
procurement.</DELETED>
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 505. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for the purpose of transferring control over the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, Georgia, and Artesia, 
New Mexico, out of the Treasury Department.
    Sec. 506. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 507. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee 
of the United States Postal Service, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any officer or employee of the United 
        States Postal Service from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member or committee of 
        Congress in connection with any matter pertaining to the 
        employment of such officer or employee or pertaining to the 
        United States Postal Service in any way, irrespective of 
        whether such communication or contact is at the initiative of 
        such officer or employee or in response to the request or 
        inquiry of such Member or committee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any officer or employee of the 
        United States Postal Service, or attempts or threatens to 
        commit any of the foregoing actions with respect to such 
        officer or employee, by reason of any communication or contact 
        of such officer or employee with any Member or committee of 
        Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 508. The Office of Personnel Management may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1997, accept donations of supplies, services, 
land, and equipment for the Federal Executive Institute and Management 
Development Centers to assist in enhancing the quality of Federal 
management.
    Sec. 509. The United States Secret Service may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1997, and hereafter, accept donations of 
money to off-set costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and 
spouses of former Presidents when the former President or spouse 
travels for the purpose of making an appearance or speech for a payment 
of money or any thing of value.
    Sec. 510. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service and has within 
90 days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than 1 year made 
application for restoration to his former position and has been 
certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to 
perform the duties of his former position and has not been restored 
thereto.
    Sec. 511. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide any non-public information such as mailing or telephone 
lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 512. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 513. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 514. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 515. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 1997 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 1997 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 1998, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds.
    Sec. 516. Where appropriations in this Act are expendable for 
travel expenses of employees and no specific limitation has been placed 
thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not exceed the 
amount set forth in the budget estimates submitted for appropriations 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to travel 
performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal boards 
in the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel of the Office of Personnel 
Management in carrying out its observation responsibilities of the 
Voting Rights Act; or to payments to interagency motor pools separately 
set forth in the budget schedules: Provided further, That this 
provision does not apply to accounts that do not contain an object 
identification for travel.
    Sec. 517. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and thereafter:
            (1) The authority of the special police officers of the 
        Bureau of Engraving and Printing, in the Washington, DC 
        Metropolitan area, extends to buildings and land under the 
        custody and control of the Bureau; to buildings and land 
        acquired by or for the Bureau through lease, unless otherwise 
        provided by the acquisition agency; to the streets, sidewalks 
        and open areas immediately adjacent to the Bureau along 
        Wallenberg Place (15th Street) and 14th Street between 
        Independence and Maine Avenues and C and D Streets between 12th 
        and 14th Streets; to areas which include surrounding parking 
        facilities used by Bureau employees, including the lots at 12th 
        and C Streets, SW, Maine Avenue and Water Streets, SW, Maiden 
        Lane, the Tidal Basin and East Potomac Park; to the protection 
        in transit of United States securities, plates and dies used in 
        the production of United States securities, or other products 
        or implements of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing which the 
        Director of that agency so designates.
            (2) The authority of the special police officers of the 
        United States Mint extends to the buildings and land under the 
        custody and control of the Mint; to the streets, sidewalks and 
        open areas in the vicinity to such facilities; to surrounding 
        parking facilities used by Mint employees; and to the 
        protection in transit of bullion, coins, dies, and other 
        property and assets of, or in the custody of, the Mint.
            (3) The exercise of police authority by Bureau or Mint 
        officers, with the exception of the exercise of authority upon 
        property under the custody and control of the Bureau or the 
        Mint, respectively, shall be deemed supplementary to the 
        Federal police force with primary jurisdictional 
        responsibility. This authority shall be in addition to any 
        other law enforcement authority which has been provided to 
        these officers under other provisions of law or regulations.
<DELETED>    Sec. 518. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in 
connection with any health plan under the Federal employees health 
benefit program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 519. The provision of section 518 shall not apply 
where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
incest.</DELETED>
    Sec. 520. No part of any appropriation made available in this Act 
shall be used to implement Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
Ruling TD ATF-360; Re: Notice Nos. 782, 780, 91F009P.
<DELETED>    Sec. 521. Notwithstanding title 5, United States Code, 
Personal Service Contractors (PSC) employed by the Department of the 
Treasury for assignment in a country other than the United States, 
shall be considered as Federal Government employees for purposes of 
making available Federal employee health and life insurance.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 522. Section 5131 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsection (c); and by redesignating subsection (d) 
as subsection (c).</DELETED>
    Sec. 523. Section 5112(i)(4) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) The Secretary may continue to mint and issue coins in 
accordance with the specifications contained in paragraphs (7), (8), 
(9), and (10) of subsection (a) and paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection 
at the same time the Secretary in minting and issuing other bullion and 
proof gold coins under this subsection in accordance with such program 
procedures and coin specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, 
denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary's 
discretion, may prescribe from time to time.'': Provided, That profits 
generated from the sale of gold to the United States Mint for this 
program shall be considered as a receipt to be deposited into the 
General Fund of the Treasury.
    Sec. 524. Section 5112 of title 31, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) The Secretary may mint and issue bullion and proof platinum 
coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, 
quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the 
Secretary's discretion, may prescribe from time to time.'': Provided, 
That the Secretary is authorized to use Government platinum reserves 
stockpiled at the United States Mint as working inventory and shall 
ensure that reserves utilized are replaced by the Mint.
    Sec. 525. Voluntary Separation Incentives for Employees of Certain 
Federal Agencies.--(a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' means the Internal Revenue Service, 
        the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and the United 
        States Customs Service;
            (2) the term ``employee'' means an employee (as defined by 
        section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) who is employed by 
        an agency, is serving under an appointment without time 
        limitation, and has been currently employed for a continuous 
        period of at least <DELETED>12 months </DELETED>3 years, but 
        does not include--
                    <DELETED>(A) any employee who, upon separation and 
                application, would then be eligible for an immediate 
                annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
                84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
                retirement system for employees of the agency;
                </DELETED>    (B) </DELETED>(A) a reemployed annuitant 
                under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
                title 5, United States Code, or another retirement 
                system for employees of the agency;
                    <DELETED>(C) </DELETED>(B) an employee having a 
                disability on the basis of which such employee is or 
                would be eligible for disability retirement under 
                <DELETED>the applicable retirement system referred to 
                in subparagraph (A) </DELETED>subchapter III of chapter 
                83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or 
                another retirement system for employees of the agency;
                    <DELETED>(D) </DELETED>(C) an employee who is in 
                receipt of a specific notice of involuntary separation 
                for misconduct or unacceptable performance;
                    <DELETED>(E) </DELETED>(D) an employee who, upon 
                completing an additional period of service <DELETED>is</DELETED> 
                as referred to in section 3(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Federal 
                Workforce Restructuring Act of 1994 (5 U.S.C. 5597 
                note), would qualify for a voluntary separation 
                incentive payment under section 3 of such Act;
                    <DELETED>(F) </DELETED>(E) an employee who has 
                previously received any voluntary separation incentive 
                payment by the Federal Government under this section or 
                any other authority and has not repaid such payment;
                    <DELETED>(G) </DELETED>(F) an employee covered by 
                statutory reemployment rights who is on transfer to 
                another organization; or
                    <DELETED>(H) </DELETED>(G) any employee who, during 
                the twenty four month period preceding the date of 
                separation, has received a recruitment or relocation 
                bonus under section 5753 of title 5, United States 
                Code, or who, within the twelve month period preceding 
                the date of separation, received a retention 
                <DELETED>allowable </DELETED>allowance under section 
                5754 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Agency Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The head of each agency, prior to 
        obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive 
        payments, shall submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of 
        the House of Representatives a strategic plan outlining the 
        intended use of such incentive payments and a proposed 
        organizational chart for the agency once such incentive 
        payments have been completed.
            (2) Contents.--The agency's plan shall include--
                    (A) the positions and functions to be reduced or 
                eliminated, identified by organizational unit, 
                geographic location, occupational category and grade 
                level;
                    (B) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered; and
                    (C) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions.
    (c) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) In general.--A voluntary separation incentive payment 
        under this section may be paid by an agency to any employee 
        only to the extent necessary to eliminate the positions and 
        functions identified by the strategic plan.
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the 
                employee's separation;
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employees;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                            (i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 
                        section 5595(c) of title 5, United States Code; 
                        or
                            (ii) an amount determined by the agency 
                        head not to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may not be made except in the case of any 
                qualifying employee who voluntarily separates (whether 
                by retirement or resignation) before March 31, 1997;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation.
    (d) Additional Agency Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 
        5, United States Code, an agency shall remit to the Office of 
        Personnel Management for deposit in the Treasury of the United 
        States to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement and 
        Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 percent of the final 
        basic pay of each employee of the agency who is covered under 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United 
        States Code, to whom a voluntary separation incentive has been 
        paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term 
        ``final basic pay'', with respect to an employee, means the 
        total amount of basic pay which would be payable for a year of 
        service by such employee, computed using the employee's final 
        rate of basic pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-
        time basis, with appropriate adjustment therefor.
    (e) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--An 
individual who has received a voluntary separation incentive payment 
under this section and accepts any employment for compensation with the 
Government of the United States, or who works for any agency of the 
United States Government through a personal services contract, within 5 
years after the date of the separation on which the payment is based 
shall be required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to the agency 
that paid the incentive payment.
    (f) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) In general.--The total number of funded employee 
        positions in the agency shall be reduced by one position for 
        each vacancy created by the separation of any employee who has 
        received, or is due to receive, a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section. For the purposes of this 
        subsection, positions shall be counted on a full-time-
        equivalent basis.
            (2) Enforcement.--The President, through the Office of 
        Management and Budget, shall monitor the agency and take any 
        action necessary to ensure that the requirements of this 
        subsection are met.
    (g) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect October 1, 
1996.
<DELETED>    Sec. 525A. Voluntary Separation Incentives for Employees 
of the United States Agency for International Development.--</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (a) Authority.--The United States Agency for International 
Development is authorized to offer voluntary separation incentive 
payments to no more than 100 of its employees in accordance with 
section 525 of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Exception.--Section 525(a)(2)(A) of this Act shall not 
apply to an employee of the United States Agency for International 
Development who, upon separation and application, would be eligible for 
an immediate annuity under sections 8336(d)(2) and 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
title 5, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the 
date of enactment of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 526. That provisions of law governing procurement or 
public contracts shall not be applicable to the procurement of goods or 
services necessary for carrying out Bureau of Engraving and Printing 
program and operation: Provided, That the authority contained in this 
provision shall expire on September 30, 1999.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 527. The United States Mint is hereby authorized to 
establish a demonstration project under the authorities of title V, 
U.S.C., chapter 47: Provided, That the Director of the United States 
Mint shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate; the Director shall serve on the basis of a six-
year contract, which may be renewed, so long as the Director's 
performance, as set forth in an annual performance agreement with the 
Secretary of the Treasury, is satisfactory; and the Director shall 
receive as basic compensation for a calendar year an amount equal to 
the annual rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5312 of title 5 and, in addition, may receive an annual 
bonus awarded by the Secretary, based upon the Secretary's evaluation 
of the Director's performance in accordance with the performance 
agreement.</DELETED>
    Sec. 528. (a) Reimbursement of Certain Attorney Fees and Costs.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay 
        from amounts appropriated in title I of this Act under the 
        heading, ``Departmental Offices, Salaries and Expenses'', up to 
        $500,000 to reimburse former employees of the White House 
        Travel Office whose employment in that Office was terminated on 
        May 19, 1993, for any attorney fees and costs they incurred 
        with respect to that termination.
            (2) Verification required.--The Secretary shall pay an 
        individual in full under paragraph (1) upon submission by the 
        individual of documentation verifying the attorney fees and 
        costs.
            (3) No inference of liability.--Liability of the United 
        States shall not be inferred from enactment of or payment under 
        this subsection.
    (b) Limitation on Filing of Claims.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall not pay any claim filed under this section that is filed later 
than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Limitation.--Payments under subsection (a) shall not include 
attorney fees or costs incurred with respect to any Congressional 
hearing or investigation into the termination of employment of the 
former employees of the White House Travel Office.
    <DELETED>(c) </DELETED>(d) Reduction.--The amount paid pursuant to 
this section to an individual for attorney fees and costs described in 
subsection (a) shall be reduced by any amount received before the date 
of the enactment of this Act, without obligation for repayment by the 
individual, for payment of such attorney fees and costs (including any 
amount received from the funds appropriated for the individual in the 
matter relating to the ``Office of the General Counsel'' under the 
heading ``Office of the Secretary'' in title I of the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994).
    <DELETED>(d) </DELETED>(e) Payment in Full Settlement of Claims 
Against the United States.--Payment under this section, when accepted 
by an individual described in subsection (a), shall be in full 
satisfaction of all claims of, or on behalf of, the individual against 
the United States that arose out of the termination of the White House 
Travel Office employment of that individual on May 19, 1993.
    Sec. 529. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 530. Mint Facility for Gold and Platinum Coins.--Section 5112 
of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
            ``(1) Mint facility for gold and platinum coins.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
        Mint Facility at West Point, New York, shall be used to strike 
        and distribute all gold coins and all platinum coins minted by 
        the Secretary under this title or any other provision of law, 
        including all proof and uncirculated gold bullion coins and 
        commemorative coins.''.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Section  601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1997 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department or 
instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision 
of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant 
to this section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-24.
    Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person (1) is a citizen of the United States, (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is 
actually residing in the United States, (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States, (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence, (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975, or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifys for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in the current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive Order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and 
thereafter, any department or agency to which the Administrator of 
General Services has delegated the authority to operate, maintain or 
repair any building or facility pursuant to section 205(d) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, 
shall retain that portion of the GSA rental payment available for 
operation, maintenance or repair of the building or facility, as 
determined by the Administrator, and expend such funds directly for the 
operation, maintenance or repair of the building or facility. Any funds 
retained under this section shall remain available until expended for 
such purposes.
    Sec. 612. (a) In General.--Section 1306 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1306. Use of foreign credits
    ``(a) In General.--Foreign credits (including currencies) owed to 
or owned by the United States may be used by any agency for any purpose 
for which appropriations are made for the agency for the current fiscal 
year (including the carrying out of Acts requiring or authorizing the 
use of such credits), but only when reimbursement therefor is made to 
the Treasury from applicable appropriations of the agency.
    ``(b) Exception to Reimbursement Requirement.--Credits described in 
subsection (a) that are received as exchanged allowances, or as the 
proceeds of the sale of personal property, may be used in whole or 
partial payment for the acquisition of similar items, to the extent and 
in the manner authorized by law, without reimbursement to the 
Treasury.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply 
thereafter.
    Sec. 613. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards, 
commissions, councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not 
they are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and specific 
statutory approval to receive financial support from more than one 
agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 614. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
``Postal Service Fund'' (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for 
employment of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by 
the Postal Service and under the charge and control of the Postal 
Service, and such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the 
powers of special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of 
June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to 
property owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster 
General may take the same actions as the Administrator of General 
Services may take under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act 
of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a, 318b), 
attaching thereto penal consequences under the authority and within the 
limits provided in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 
Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 615. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 616. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1997, by 
this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee 
described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 616 of the Treasury, Postal 
        Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1996, until 
        the normal effective date of the applicable wage survey 
        adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 1997, in an 
        amount that exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade 
        and step of the applicable wage schedule in accordance with 
        such section 616; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1997, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1997 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1997 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in fiscal year 1996 under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1996, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 1996, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1996.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including section 8431 of title 5, United States Code, and any rule or 
regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life insurance, or 
any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the 
basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this section shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 617. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 618. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 619. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 613 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1997 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order 
Numbered 12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 620. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of 
        the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
        intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 621. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1997 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 622. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including 
employees of the Executive Office of the President, not directly 
responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and 
duties: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family 
of the President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State 
of a foreign country or their designees, persons providing assistance 
to the President for official purposes, or other individuals so 
designated by the President.
    Sec. 623. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or 
his designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or 
persons with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the 
Executive Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are 
themselves subject to a program of individual random drug testing.
    Sec. 624. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training when 
it is made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate 
or expend such funds that such employee training--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988;
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or
            (6) includes content related to human immunodeficiency 
        virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than 
        that necessary to make employees more aware of the medical 
        ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the workplace rights of HIV-
        positive employees.
     (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 625. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1997 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other 
nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, form, or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, 
or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities 
created by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United 
States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 
10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); 
the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et 
seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 
798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The 
definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and 
liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or 
agreement that is to be executed by a person connected with the conduct 
of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an 
employee or officer of the United States Government, may contain 
provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such 
document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, 
require that the person will not disclose any classified information 
received in the course of such activity unless specifically authorized 
to do so by the United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms 
shall also make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress 
or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department 
of Justice that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of 
law.
    Sec. 626. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be expended by any Federal Agency to procure any product or 
service subject to section 5124 of Public Law 104-106 and that will be 
available under the procurement by the Administrator of General 
Services known as ``FTS2000'' unless--
            (1) such product or service is procured by the 
        Administrator of General Services as part of the procurement 
        known as ``FTS2000''; or
            (2) that agency establishes to the satisfaction of the 
        Administrator of General Services that--
                    (A) that agency's requirements for such procurement 
                are unique and cannot be satisfied by property and 
                service procured by the Administrator of General 
                Services as part of the procurement known as 
                ``FTS2000''; and
                    (B) the agency procurement, pursuant to such 
                delegation, would be cost-effective and would not 
                adversely affect the cost-effectiveness of the FTS2000 
                procurement.
    (b) After <DELETED>July 31, 1997 </DELETED>December 31, 1998, 
subsection (a) shall apply only if the Administrator of General 
Services has reported that the FTS2000 procurement is producing prices 
that allow the Government to satisfy its requirements for such 
procurement in the most cost-effective manner.
    Sec. 627. Subsection (f) of section 403 of Public Law 103-356 is 
amended by deleting ``October 1, 1999'' and inserting ``October 1, 
2001''.
    Sec. 628. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, none of the funds made available by this Act for the Department of 
the Treasury shall be available for any activity or for paying the 
salary of any Government employee where funding an activity or paying a 
salary to a Government employee would result in a decision, 
determination, rule, regulation, or policy that would permit the 
Secretary of the Treasury to make any loan or extension of credit under 
section 5302 of title 31, United States Code, with respect to a single 
foreign entity or government of a foreign country (including agencies 
or other entities of that government)--
            (1) with respect to a loan or extension of credit for more 
        than 60 days, unless the President certifies to the Committee 
        on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives that--
                    (A) there is no projected cost (as that term is 
                defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act 
                of 1990) to the United States from the proposed loan or 
                extension of credit; and
                    (B) any proposed obligation or expenditure of 
                United States funds to or on behalf of the foreign 
                government is adequately backed by an assured source of 
                repayment to ensure that all United States funds will 
                be repaid; and
            (2) other than as provided by an Act of Congress, if that 
        loan or extension of credit would result in expenditures and 
        obligations, including contingent obligations, aggregating more 
        than $1,000,000,000 with respect to that foreign country for 
        more than 180 days during the 12-month period beginning on the 
        date on which the first such action is taken.
    (b) Waiver of Limitations.--The President may exceed the dollar and 
time limitations in subsection (a)(2) if he certifies in writing to the 
Congress that a financial crisis in that foreign country poses a threat 
to vital United States economic interests or to the stability of the 
international financial system.
    (c) Expedited Procedures for a Resolution of Disapproval.--A 
presidential certification pursuant to subsection (b) shall not take 
effect, if the Congress, within 30 calendar days after receiving such 
certification, enacts a joint resolution of disapproval, as described 
in paragraph (5) of this subsection.
            (1) Reference to committees.--All joint resolutions 
        introduced in the Senate to disapprove the certification shall 
        be referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs, and in the House of Representatives, to the 
        appropriate committees.
            (2) Discharge of committees.--(A) If the committee of 
        either House to which a resolution has been referred has not 
        reported it at the end of 15 days after its introduction, it is 
        in order to move either to discharge the committee from further 
        consideration of the joint resolution or to discharge the 
        committee from further consideration of any other resolution 
        introduced with respect to the same matter, except no motion to 
        discharge shall be in order after the committee has reported a 
        joint resolution with respect to the same matter.
            (B) A motion to discharge may be made only by an individual 
        favoring the resolution, and is privileged in the Senate; and 
        debate thereon shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, the 
        time to be divided in the Senate equally between, and 
        controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or 
        their designees.
            (3) Floor consideration in the senate.--(A) A motion in the 
        Senate to proceed to the consideration of a resolution shall be 
        privileged.
            (B) Debate in the Senate on a resolution, and all debatable 
        motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited 
        to not more than 4 hours, to be equally divided between, and 
        controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or 
        their designees.
            (C) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal 
        in connection with a resolution shall be limited to not more 
        than 20 minutes, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
        by, the mover and the manager of the resolution, except that in 
        the event the manager of the resolution is in favor of any such 
        motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto, shall be 
        controlled by the minority leader or his designee. Such 
        leaders, or either of them, may, from time under their control 
        on the passage of a resolution, allot additional time to any 
        Senator during the consideration of any debatable motion or 
        appeal.
            (D) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate on a 
        resolution, debatable motion, or appeal is not debatable. No 
        amendment to, or motion to recommit, a resolution is in order 
        in the Senate.
            (4) In the case of a resolution, if prior to the passage by 
        one House of a resolution of that House, that House receives a 
        resolution with respect to the same matter from the other 
        House, then--
                    (A) the procedure in that House shall be the same 
                as if no resolution had been received from the other 
                House; but
                    (B) the vote on final passage shall be on the 
                resolution of the other House.
            (5) For purposes of this subsection, the term ``joint 
        resolution'' means only a joint resolution of the 2 Houses of 
        Congress, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as 
        follows: ``That the Congress disapproves the action of the 
        President under section 628(c) of the Treasury, Postal Service, 
        and General Government Appropriations Act, 1997, notice of 
        which was submitted to the Congress on ______________.'', with 
        the blank space being filled with the appropriate date.
    (d) Applicability.--This section--
            (1) shall not apply to any action taken as part of the 
        program of assistance to Mexico announced by the President on 
        January 31, 1995; and
            (2) shall remain in effect through fiscal year 1997.
    Sec. 629. (a) Technical Amendment.--Section 640 of Public Law 104-
52 (109 Stat. 513) is amended by striking ``Service performed'' and 
inserting ``Hereafter, service performed''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in Public Law 104-52 on the date of its 
enactment.
    Sec. 630. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no part of 
any appropriation contained in this Act for any fiscal year shall be 
available for paying Sunday premium or differential pay to any employee 
unless such employee actually performed work during the time 
corresponding to such premium or differential pay.
    Sec. 631. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 632. (a) Federal Employee Representation Improvement.--
Subsection (d) of section 205 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(d)(1) Nothing in subsection (a) or (b) prevents an officer or 
employee, if not inconsistent with the faithful performance of that 
officer's or employee's duties, from acting without compensation as 
agent or attorney for, or otherwise representing--
            ``(A) any person who is the subject of disciplinary, 
        loyalty, or other personnel administration proceedings in 
        connection with those proceedings; or
            ``(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), any cooperative, 
        voluntary, professional, recreational, or similar organization 
        or group not established or operated for profit, if a majority 
        of the organization's or group's members are current officers 
        or employees of the United States or of the District of 
        Columbia, or their spouses or dependent children.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1)(B) does not apply with respect to a covered 
matter that--
            ``(A) is a claim under subsection (a)(1) or (b)(1);
            ``(B) is a judicial or administrative proceeding where the 
        organization or group is a party; or
            ``(C) involves a grant, contract, or other agreement 
        (including a request for any such grant, contract, or 
        agreement) providing for the disbursement of Federal funds to 
        the organization or group.''.
    (b) Application to Labor-Management Relations.--Section 205 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(i) Nothing in this section prevents an employee from acting 
pursuant to--
            ``(1) chapter 71 of title 5;
            ``(2) section 1004 or chapter 12 of title 39;
            ``(3) section 3 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 
        1933 (16 U.S.C. 831b);
            ``(4) chapter 10 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 
        1980 (22 U.S.C. 4104 et seq.); or
            ``(5) any provision of any other Federal or District of 
        Columbia law that authorizes labor-management relations between 
        an agency or instrumentality of the United States or the 
        District of Columbia and any labor organization that represents 
        its employees.''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply 
thereafter.
    Sec. 633. Survivor Annuity Resumption Upon Termination of 
Marriage.--(a) Amendments.--
            (1) Civil service retirement system.--Section 8341(e) of 
        title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``(4) If the annuity of a child under this subchapter terminates 
under paragraph (3)(E) because of marriage, then, if such marriage 
ends, such annuity shall resume on the first day of the month in which 
it ends, but only if--
            ``(A) any lump sum paid is returned to the Fund; and
            ``(B) that individual is not otherwise ineligible for such 
        annuity.''.
            (2) Federal employees' retirement system.--Section 8443(b) 
        of such title is amended by adding at the end the following: 
        ``If the annuity of a child under this subchapter terminates 
        under subparagraph (E) because of marriage, then, if such 
        marriage ends, such annuity shall resume on the first day of 
        the month in which it ends, but only if any lump sum paid is 
        returned to the Fund, and that individual is not otherwise 
        ineligible for such annuity.''.
            (3) Federal employees health benefits.--Section 8908 of 
        title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end of 
        the following new subsection:
    ``(d) A surviving child whose survivor annuity under section 
8341(e) or 8443(b) was terminated and is later restored under paragraph 
(4) of section 8341(e) or the last sentence of section 8443(b) may, 
under regulations prescribed by the Office, enroll in a health benefits 
plan described by section 8903 or 8903a if such surviving child was 
covered by any such plan immediately before such annuity was 
terminated.''.
<DELETED>    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by section 1 shall 
apply with respect to any termination of marriage taking effect on or 
after November 1, 1993, except that any recomputation of benefits shall 
be payable only with respect to amounts accruing for periods beginning 
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.</DELETED>
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to any termination of marriage taking effect before, 
on, or after the date of enactment of this Act, except that benefits 
shall be payable only with respect to amounts accruing for periods 
beginning on the first day of the month beginning after the later of 
such termination of marriage or such date of enactment.
<DELETED>    Sec. 634. Availability of Annual Leave To Meet Minimum Age 
and Service Requirements for Title to an Immediate Annuity.--(a) Civil 
Service Retirement System.--Section 8336 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(o)(1) An employee involuntarily separated from service 
due to a reduction in force shall, upon written election, be given 
credit for days of unused annual leave standing to such employee's 
credit under a formal leave system as of the date of separation, if and 
to the extent necessary in order to meet the minimum age and service 
requirements for title to an annuity under this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(2) The Office shall prescribe any regulations which may 
be necessary to carry out this subsection, including regulations under 
which contributions to the Fund shall, with respect to the days of 
leave for which credit is given under this subsection, be made--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) by the employee, equal to the employee 
        contributions which would have been required for those days if 
        separation had not occurred; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) by the agency from which separated, equal to 
        the Government contributions which would have been required if 
        separation had not occurred.</DELETED>
<DELETED>Contributions under the preceding sentence shall be determined 
based on the rate of basic pay last in effect before 
separation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) to allow credit to be given for any leave 
        standing to the credit of the employee (other than by 
        restoration) pursuant to subchapter III or IV of chapter 63 or 
        other similar authority;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) to permit or require the making of any 
        contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund with respect to any 
        period after the date of separation; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(C) to make any days of annual leave creditable 
        for purposes of section 8333, any determination of average pay, 
        or any computation of annuity.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(4)(A) The taking of a lump-sum payment under section 
5551 or other similar authority shall not make any of the leave to 
which such payment relates unavailable for purposes of this 
subsection.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(B) The use of any leave for purposes of this subsection 
shall not reduce the amount of leave for which a lump-sum payment is 
payable under section 5551 or other similar authority.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(5) This subsection shall apply with respect to 
separations occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection and before July 1, 2002.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Federal Employees' Retirement System.--Section 8412 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(i)(1) An employee involuntarily separated from service 
due to a reduction in force shall, upon written election, be given 
credit for days of unused annual leave standing to such employee's 
credit under a formal leave system as of the date of separation, if and 
to the extent necessary in order to meet the minimum age and service 
requirements for title to an annuity under this section or section 
8414.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(2) The Office shall prescribe any regulations which may 
be necessary to carry out this subsection, including regulations under 
which contributions to the Fund shall, with respect to the days of 
leave for which credit is given under this subsection, be made--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) by the employee, equal to the employee 
        contributions which would have been required for those days if 
        separation had not occurred; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) by the agency from which separated, equal to 
        the Government contributions which would have been required if 
        separation had not occurred.</DELETED>
<DELETED>Contributions under the preceding sentence shall be determined 
based on the rate of basic pay last in effect before 
separation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(A) to allow credit to be given for any leave 
        standing to the credit of the employee (other than by 
        restoration) pursuant to subchapter III or IV of chapter 63 or 
        other similar authority;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(B) to permit or require the making of any 
        contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund with respect to any 
        period after the date of separation; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(C) to make any days of annual leave creditable 
        for purposes of section 8410, any determination of average pay, 
        or any computation of annuity.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(4)(A) The taking of a lump-sum payment under section 
5551 or other similar authority shall not make any of the leave to 
which such payment relates unavailable for purposes of this 
subsection.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(B) The use of any leave for purposes of this subsection 
shall not reduce the amount of leave for which a lump-sum payment is 
payable under section 5551 or other similar authority.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(5) This subsection shall apply with respect to 
separations occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection and before July 1, 2002.''.</DELETED>
    Sec. 634. Availability of Annual Leave For Employees Affected by 
Reduction in Force.--Section 6302 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end of the following new subsection:
    ``(g) An employee who is being involuntarily separated from an 
agency due to a reduction in force or transfer of function under 
subchapter I of chapter 35 may elect to use annual leave to the 
employee's credit to remain on the agency's rolls after the date the 
employee would otherwise have been separated if, and only to the extent 
that, such additional time in a pay status will enable the employee to 
qualify for an immediate annuity under section 8336, 8412, 8414, or to 
qualify to carry health benefits coverage into retirement under section 
8905(b).''.
    Sec. 635. Section 207(e)(6)(B) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``level V of the Executive Schedule'' and inserting 
``level 5 of the Senior Executive Service''.
    Sec. 636. Reimbursements Relating to Professional Liability 
Insurance.--(a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
amounts appropriated by this Act (or any other Act for fiscal year 1997 
or any fiscal year thereafter) for salaries and expenses may be used to 
reimburse any qualified employee for not to exceed one-half the costs 
incurred by such employee for professional liability insurance. A 
payment under this section shall be contingent upon the submission of 
such information or documentation as the employing agency may require.
    (b) Qualified Employee.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``qualified employee'' means an agency employee whose position is that 
of--
            (1) a law enforcement officer; or
            (2) a supervisor or management official.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' means an Executive agency, as 
        defined by section 105 of title 5, United States Code, and any 
        agency of the Legislative Branch of Government including any 
        office or committee of the Senate or the House of 
        Representatives;
            (2) the term ``law enforcement officer'' means an employee, 
        the duties of whose position are primarily the investigation, 
        apprehension, prosecution, or detention of individuals 
        suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of 
        the United States, including any law enforcement officer under 
        section 8331(20) or 8401(17) of such title 5;
            (3) the terms ``supervisor'' and ``management official'' 
        have the respective meanings given them by section 7103(a) of 
        such title 5, and
            (4) the term ``professional liability insurance'' means 
        insurance which provides coverage for--
                    (A) legal liability for damages due to injuries to 
                other persons, damage to their property, or other 
                damage or loss to such other persons (including the 
                expenses of litigation and settlement) resulting from 
                or arising out of any tortious act, error, or omission 
                of the covered individual (whether common law, 
                statutory, or constitutional) while in the performance 
                of such individual's official duties as a qualified 
                employee; and
                    (B) the cost of legal representation for the 
                covered individual in connection with any 
                administrative or judicial proceeding (including any 
                investigation or disciplinary proceeding) relating to 
                any act, error, or omission of the covered individual 
                while in the performance of such individual's official 
                duties as a qualified employee, and other legal costs 
                and fees relating to any such administrative or 
                judicial proceeding.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply 
thereafter.
<DELETED>    Sec. 637. For purposes of each provision of law amended by 
section 704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5318 
note), no adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, 
shall be considered to have taken effect in fiscal year 1997 in the 
rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 638. (a) For purposes of this section, the term 
``political appointee'' means any individual who--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) is employed in a position listed in sections 
        5312 through 5316 of title 5, United States Code (relating to 
        the Executive Schedule);</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) is a limited term appointee, limited emergency 
        appointee, or noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive 
        Service, as defined under section 3132(a) (5), (6), and (7) of 
        title 5, United States Code, respectively; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) is employed in a position in the executive 
        branch of the Government under schedule C of subpart C of part 
        213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The President, acting through the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management, shall take such 
actions as necessary (including reduction-in-force actions under 
procedures consistent with those established under section 3595 of 
title 5, United States Code) to ensure that the number of political 
appointees shall not, during any fiscal year beginning after September 
30, 1997, exceed a total of 2,300 (determined on a full-time equivalent 
basis).</DELETED>
    Sec. 639. Section 608 of Public Law 104-52 is amended in the first 
sentence by inserting before the period, ``, including Federal records 
disposed of pursuant to a records schedule''.
    Sec. 640. In reviewing and analyzing the contracting out, 
outsourcing or privatization of business and administrative functions, 
and in implementing 40 U.S.C. sections 1413 and 1423, and other 
provisions, in title LI of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
fiscal year 1996 (the Information Technology Management Reform Act)--
            (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and 
        the heads of the executive agencies may have studies, analyses, 
        reviews and other management assistance performed by the 
        private sector;
            (2) the reviews, analyses, and studies called for by 40 
        U.S.C. section 1413(b)(2) (B) and (C) shall be completed and 
        reported to the Agency Head within 180 days, or less measured 
        from when a study analysis or review is initiated unless the 
        Agency Head determines additional time is needed; and
            (3) in accordance with principles and rules governing 
        organizational conflicts of interest, persons involved in a 
        particular study may not compete for any work that is to be or 
        is outsourced as a result of that study.
            (4) this section will apply with respect to studies 
        occurring on or after the date of enactment of this subsection 
        and completed before September 1, 1999 and the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall review and provide an 
        assessment of this program by January 1, 1999.
    Sec. 641. (a) Section 1.--Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 
8(a)(1) of the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 
note, Public Law 101-12, April 10, 1989, 103 Stat. 34, as amended 
Public Law 103-424, Section 1, October 29, 1994, 108 Stat. 4361), is 
amended by striking the words: ``1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997,'' 
and inserting in lieu thereof ``1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002''.
    (b) Section 2.--Effective Date. This Act shall take effect on 
October 1, 1998.
    Sec. 642. (a) Section 1.--Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 
8(a)(1) of the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 
note; Public Law 103-424; 103 Stat. 34) is amended by striking out: 
``1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997,'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002''.
    (b) Section 2.--Effective Date.--This Act shall take effect on 
October 1, 1998.
    Sec. 643. Modifications of National Commission on Restructuring the 
Internal Revenue Service.--(a) Quorum.--Paragraph (4) of section 637(b) 
of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations 
Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-52, 109 Stat. 510) is amended by striking 
``Seven'' and inserting ``Nine''.
    (b) Co-Chairs.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (3) of section 637(b) of such 
        Act is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``a Chairman'' and inserting ``Co-
                Chairs'', and
                    (B) by striking ``Chairman'' in the heading and 
                inserting ``Co-Chairs''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Paragraph (5)(B) of section 
        637(b) of such Act is amended by striking ``a Chairman'' and 
        inserting ``Co-Chairs''.
            (B) Subsections (b)(4), (d)(1)(B), (d)(3), and (e)(1) of 
        section 637 of such Act are each amended by striking 
        ``Chairman'' each place it appears and inserting ``Co-Chairs''.
    (c) Gifts.--Section 637(d) of such Act is amended by adding at the 
end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose 
        of gifts or donations of services or property in carrying out 
        its duties under this section.''
    (d) Travel Expenses.--Section 637(f)(2) of such Act is amended by 
striking ``shall'' and inserting ``may''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the provisions of the Treasury, Postal 
Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1996.
    Sec. 644. (a) In General.--Section 202(a) of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``$10,000 a year'' and inserting 
``$30,000 a year''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall take effect at the 
beginning of the next applicable pay period beginning after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 645. Regulatory Accounting.--(a) In general.--No later than 
September 30, 1997, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall submit to the Congress an accounting statement that estimates the 
cumulative costs and benefits of Federal regulatory programs.
    (b) Notice.--The Director shall provide public notice and an 
opportunity to comment on the accounting statement and report under 
subsection (c).
    (c) Associated Report.--The Director shall submit with the 
accounting statement an associated report that shall contain, at a 
minimum--
            (1) analysis of the direct and indirect impacts of Federal 
        rules on the private sector, State and local government, and 
        the Federal Government;
            (2) estimates of the costs and benefits of each rule that 
        is likely to have a gross annual effect on the economy of 
        $100,000,000 or more in increased costs; and
            (3) recommendations from the Director and public comments 
        to reform or eliminate any Federal regulatory program or 
        program element that is inefficient or is not a sound use of 
        national resources.

 TITLE VII--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND RESCISSIONS FOR THE FISCAL 
                     YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' to be used 
in connection with investigations of arson at religious institutions, 
$12,011,000, available upon enactment of this Act and to remain 
available until expended.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                          information systems

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading <DELETED>for Tax 
Systems Modernization </DELETED>in Public Law 104-52, 
<DELETED>$12,011,000 </DELETED>$16,500,000 are rescinded.

      <DELETED>TITLE VIII--ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 801. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be available to pay any amount to, or to pay the administrative 
expenses in connection with, any health plan under the Federal 
employees health benefit program, when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that such 
health plan operates a health care provider incentive plan that does 
not meet the requirements of section 1876(i)(8)(A) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395mm(i)(8)(A)) for physician incentive plans 
in contracts with eligible organizations under section 1876 of such 
Act.</DELETED>
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury, Postal Service, and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1997''.