[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2587 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2587

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
   the sixth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine


                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and 
other activities chargeable in whole or in part against revenues of said 
 District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                TITLE I--FISCAL YEAR 2000 APPROPRIATIONS

                             FEDERAL FUNDS

              Federal Payment for Resident Tuition Support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for a program to 
be administered by the Mayor for District of Columbia resident tuition 
support, subject to the enactment of authorizing legislation for such 
program by Congress, $17,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such funds may be used on behalf of eligible District of 
Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the difference between 
in-State and out-of-State tuition at public institutions of higher 
education, usable at both public and private institutions of higher 
education: Provided further, That the awarding of such funds may be 
prioritized on the basis of a resident's academic merit and such other 
factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That if the authorized 
program is a nationwide program, the Mayor may expend up to 
$17,000,000: Provided further, That if the authorized program is for a 
limited number of States, the Mayor may expend up to $11,000,000: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia may expend funds other 
than the funds provided under this heading, including local tax 
revenues and contributions, to support such program.

        Federal Payment for Incentives for Adoption of Children

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia to create 
incentives to promote the adoption of children in the District of 
Columbia foster care system, $5,000,000: Provided, That such funds 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001 and shall be used in 
accordance with a program established by the Mayor and the Council of 
the District of Columbia and approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That funds provided under this heading may be used to cover 
the costs to the District of Columbia of providing tax credits to 
offset the costs incurred by individuals in adopting children in the 
District of Columbia foster care system and in providing for the health 
care needs of such children, in accordance with legislation enacted by 
the District of Columbia government.

         Federal Payment to the Citizen Complaint Review Board

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for 
administrative expenses of the Citizen Complaint Review Board, 
$500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

          Federal Payment to the Department of Human Services

    For a Federal payment to the Department of Human Services for a 
mentoring program and for hotline services, $250,000.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For salaries and expenses of the District of Columbia Corrections 
Trustee, $176,000,000 for the administration and operation of 
correctional facilities and for the administrative operating costs of 
the Office of the Corrections Trustee, as authorized by section 11202 
of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712): Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated in this 
Act for the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, That 
in addition to the funds provided under this heading, the District of 
Columbia Corrections Trustee may use a portion of the interest earned 
on the Federal payment made to the Trustee under the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1998 (not to exceed $4,600,000) to carry 
out the activities funded under this heading.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$99,714,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $7,209,000; for the District of Columbia Superior 
Court, $75,651,000; for the District of Columbia Court System, 
$8,854,000; and $8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001, for capital improvements for District of Columbia courthouse 
facilities: Provided, That of the amounts available for operations of 
the District of Columbia Courts, not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be for 
the design of an Integrated Justice Information System and that such 
funds shall be used in accordance with a plan and design developed by 
the courts and approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies, with 
payroll and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis 
with the General Services Administration (GSA), said services to 
include the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which 
shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

            Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under the District of 
Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel appointed in 
proceedings in the Family Division of the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code, and 
payments for counsel authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Code 
(relating to representation provided under the District of Columbia 
Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act 
of 1986), $33,336,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That in addition to the funds provided under this heading, the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia may 
use a portion (not to exceed $1,200,000) of the interest earned on the 
Federal payment made to the District of Columbia courts under the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999, to make payments 
described under this heading for obligations incurred during fiscal 
year 1999 if the Comptroller General certifies that the amount of 
obligations lawfully incurred for such payments during fiscal year 1999 
exceeds the obligational authority otherwise available for making such 
payments: Provided further, That such funds shall be administered by 
the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of 
Columbia: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, this appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies, with payroll 
and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis with the 
General Services Administration (GSA), said services to include the 
preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which shall be 
submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

 Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
                      for the District of Columbia

    For salaries and expenses of the Court Services and Offender 
Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, as authorized by the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997, (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712), $93,800,000, of which 
$58,600,000 shall be for necessary expenses of Parole Revocation, Adult 
Probation, Offender Supervision, and Sex Offender Registration, to 
include expenses relating to supervision of adults subject to 
protection orders or provision of services for or related to such 
persons; $17,400,000 shall be available to the Public Defender Service; 
and $17,800,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts 
under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $20,492,000 shall be used in support of universal drug 
screening and testing for those individuals on pretrial, probation, or 
parole supervision with continued testing, intermediate sanctions, and 
treatment for those identified in need, of which $7,000,000 shall be 
for treatment services.

                   Children's National Medical Center

    For a Federal contribution to the Children's National Medical 
Center in the District of Columbia, $2,500,000 for construction, 
renovation, and information technology infrastructure costs associated 
with establishing community pediatric health clinics for high risk 
children in medically underserved areas of the District of Columbia.

           Federal Payment for Metropolitan Police Department

    For payment to the Metropolitan Police Department, $1,000,000, for 
a program to eliminate open air drug trafficking in the District of 
Columbia: Provided, That the Chief of Police shall provide quarterly 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives by the 15th calendar day after the end of each quarter 
beginning December 31, 1999, on the status of the project financed 
under this heading.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $162,356,000 (including 
$137,134,000 from local funds, $11,670,000 from Federal funds, and 
$13,552,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall be available from 
this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That any 
program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available for 
the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal sources 
shall be used to support the operations or activities of the Statehood 
Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for 
Admission to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: 
Provided further, That all employees permanently assigned to work in 
the Office of the Mayor shall be paid from funds allocated to the 
Office of the Mayor: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law now or hereafter enacted, no Member of the District of 
Columbia Council eligible to earn a part-time salary of $92,520, 
exclusive of the Council Chairman, shall be paid a salary of more than 
$84,635 during fiscal year 2000.

                  Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $190,335,000 (including 
$52,911,000 from local funds, $84,751,000 from Federal funds, and 
$52,673,000 from other funds), of which $15,000,000 collected by the 
District of Columbia in the form of BID tax revenue shall be paid to 
the respective BIDs pursuant to the Business Improvement Districts Act 
of 1996 (D.C. Law 11-134; D.C. Code, sec. 1-2271 et seq.), and the 
Business Improvement Districts Temporary Amendment Act of 1997 (D.C. 
Law 12-23): Provided, That such funds are available for acquiring 
services provided by the General Services Administration: Provided 
further, That Business Improvement Districts shall be exempt from taxes 
levied by the District of Columbia.

                       Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, including purchase or lease of 135 
passenger-carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for 
police-type use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, 
$778,770,000 (including $565,511,000 from local funds, $29,012,000 from 
Federal funds, and $184,247,000 from other funds): Provided, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to replace not to exceed 
25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Department of Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services of the District of Columbia is authorized to replace 
not to exceed five passenger-carrying vehicles annually whenever the 
cost of repair to any damaged vehicle exceeds three-fourths of the cost 
of the replacement: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall 
be available from this appropriation for the Chief of Police for the 
prevention and detection of crime: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate on efforts to 
increase efficiency and improve the professionalism in the department: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or 
Mayor's Order 86-45, issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan Police 
Department's delegated small purchase authority shall be $500,000: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia government may not 
require the Metropolitan Police Department to submit to any other 
procurement review process, or to obtain the approval of or be 
restricted in any manner by any official or employee of the District of 
Columbia government, for purchases that do not exceed $500,000: 
Provided further, That the Mayor shall reimburse the District of 
Columbia National Guard for expenses incurred in connection with 
services that are performed in emergencies by the National Guard in a 
militia status and are requested by the Mayor, in amounts that shall be 
jointly determined and certified as due and payable for these services 
by the Mayor and the Commanding General of the District of Columbia 
National Guard: Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary 
for reimbursement to the District of Columbia National Guard under the 
preceding proviso shall be available from this appropriation, and the 
availability of the sums shall be deemed as constituting payment in 
advance for emergency services involved: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to maintain 3,800 sworn 
officers, with leave for a 50 officer attrition: Provided further, That 
no more than 15 members of the Metropolitan Police Department shall be 
detailed or assigned to the Executive Protection Unit, until the Chief 
of Police submits a recommendation to the Council for its review: 
Provided further, That $100,000 shall be available for inmates released 
on medical and geriatric parole: Provided further, That commencing on 
December 31, 1999, the Metropolitan Police Department shall provide to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives, 
quarterly reports on the status of crime reduction in each of the 83 
police service areas established throughout the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That up to $700,000 in local funds shall be available 
for the operations of the Citizen Complaint Review Board.

                        Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $867,411,000 (including $721,847,000 from 
local funds, $120,951,000 from Federal funds, and $24,613,000 from 
other funds), to be allocated as follows: $713,197,000 (including 
$600,936,000 from local funds, $106,213,000 from Federal funds, and 
$6,048,000 from other funds), for the public schools of the District of 
Columbia; $10,700,000 from local funds for the District of Columbia 
Teachers' Retirement Fund; $17,000,000 from local funds, previously 
appropriated in this Act as a Federal payment, for resident tuition 
support at public and private institutions of higher learning for 
eligible District residents; $27,885,000 from local funds for public 
charter schools: Provided, That if the entirety of this allocation has 
not been provided as payments to any public charter schools currently 
in operation through the per pupil funding formula, the funds shall be 
available for new public charter schools on a per pupil basis: Provided 
further, That $480,000 of this amount shall be available to the 
District of Columbia Public Charter School Board for administrative 
costs: $72,347,000 (including $40,491,000 from local funds, $13,536,000 
from Federal funds, and $18,320,000 from other funds) for the 
University of the District of Columbia; $24,171,000 (including 
$23,128,000 from local funds, $798,000 from Federal funds, and $245,000 
from other funds) for the Public Library; $2,111,000 (including 
$1,707,000 from local funds and $404,000 from Federal funds) for the 
Commission on the Arts and Humanities: Provided further, That the 
public schools of the District of Columbia are authorized to accept not 
to exceed 31 motor vehicles for exclusive use in the driver education 
program: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the 
Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the President of the University 
of the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall 
be available from this appropriation for official purposes: Provided 
further, That none of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the salaries of any District of Columbia Public School 
teacher, principal, administrator, official, or employee who knowingly 
provides false enrollment or attendance information under article II, 
section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for compulsory school 
attendance, for the taking of a school census in the District of 
Columbia, and for other purposes'', approved February 4, 1925 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 31-401 et seq.): Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall not be available to subsidize the education of any nonresident of 
the District of Columbia at any District of Columbia public elementary 
and secondary school during fiscal year 2000 unless the nonresident 
pays tuition to the District of Columbia at a rate that covers 100 
percent of the costs incurred by the District of Columbia which are 
attributable to the education of the nonresident (as established by the 
Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public Schools): Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall not be available to subsidize 
the education of nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the 
University of the District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of 
the University of the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, a tuition rate schedule that will establish 
the tuition rate for nonresident students at a level no lower than the 
nonresident tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of 
higher education in the metropolitan area: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia Public Schools shall not spend less than 
$365,500,000 on local schools through the Weighted Student Formula in 
fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
Columbia shall apportion from the budget of the Public Education System 
a sum totaling 5 percent of the total budget to be set aside until the 
current student count for Public and Charter schools has been 
completed, and that this amount shall be apportioned between the Public 
and Charter schools based on their respective student population count: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia Public Schools may 
spend $500,000 to engage in a Schools Without Violence program based on 
a model developed by the University of North Carolina, located in 
Greensboro, North Carolina.

                         Human Support Services

    Human support services, $1,526,361,000 (including $635,373,000 from 
local funds, $875,814,000 from Federal funds, and $15,174,000 from 
other funds): Provided, That $25,150,000 of this appropriation, to 
remain available until expended, shall be available solely for District 
of Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That 
a peer review committee shall be established to review medical payments 
and the type of service received by a disability compensation claimant: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia shall not provide free 
government services such as water, sewer, solid waste disposal or 
collection, utilities, maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any 
legally constituted private nonprofit organization, as defined in 
section 411(5) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (101 
Stat. 485; Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11371), providing emergency 
shelter services in the District, if the District would not be 
qualified to receive reimbursement pursuant to such Act (101 Stat. 485; 
Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle 
for use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by 
the Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-
carrying vehicles, $271,395,000 (including $258,341,000 from local 
funds, $3,099,000 from Federal funds, and $9,955,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for collecting 
ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business.

                         Receivership Programs

    For all agencies of the District of Columbia government under court 
ordered receivership, $342,077,000 (including $217,606,000 from local 
funds, $106,111,000 from Federal funds, and $18,360,000 from other 
funds).

                         Workforce Investments

    For workforce investments, $8,500,000 from local funds, to be 
transferred by the Mayor of the District of Columbia within the various 
appropriation headings in this Act for which employees are properly 
payable.

                                Reserve

    For a reserve to be established by the Chief Financial Officer of 
the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, $150,000,000.

District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                               Authority

    For the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, established by section 101(a) of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 97; Public Law 104-8), $3,140,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds contained in this Act may be used to pay any 
compensation of the Executive Director or General Counsel of the 
Authority at a rate in excess of the maximum rate of compensation which 
may be paid to such individual during fiscal year 2000 under section 
102 of such Act, as determined by the Comptroller General (as described 
in GAO letter report B-279095.2).

                    Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For payment of principal, interest and certain fees directly 
resulting from borrowing by the District of Columbia to fund District 
of Columbia capital projects as authorized by sections 462, 475, and 
490 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 
1973, as amended, and that funds shall be allocated for expenses 
associated with the Wilson Building, $328,417,000 from local funds: 
Provided, That for equipment leases, the Mayor may finance $27,527,000 
of equipment cost, plus cost of issuance not to exceed 2 percent of the 
par amount being financed on a lease purchase basis with a maturity not 
to exceed 5 years: Provided further, That $5,300,000 is allocated to 
the Metropolitan Police Department, $3,200,000 for the Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services Department, $350,000 for the Department of 
Corrections, $15,949,000 for the Department of Public Works and 
$2,728,000 for the Public Benefit Corporation.

                Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $38,286,000 from local 
funds, as authorized by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (105 Stat. 540; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321(a)(1)).

              Payment of Interest on Short-Term Borrowing

    For payment of interest on short-term borrowing, $9,000,000 from 
local funds.

                     Certificates of Participation

    For lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of 
Participation involving the land site underlying the building located 
at One Judiciary Square, $7,950,000 from local funds.

                 Optical and Dental Insurance Payments

    For optical and dental insurance payments, $1,295,000 from local 
funds.

                           Productivity Bank

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall finance 
projects totaling $20,000,000 in local funds that result in cost 
savings or additional revenues, by an amount equal to such financing: 
Provided, That the Mayor shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate by the 15th calendar day after the end of each quarter beginning 
December 31, 1999, on the status of the projects financed under this 
heading.

                       Productivity Bank Savings

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall make 
reductions totaling $20,000,000 in local funds. The reductions are to 
be allocated to projects funded through the Productivity Bank that 
produce cost savings or additional revenues in an amount equal to the 
Productivity Bank financing: Provided, That the Mayor shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate by the 15th calendar day after the end 
of each quarter beginning December 31, 1999, on the status of the cost 
savings or additional revenues funded under this heading.

                   Procurement and Management Savings

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall make 
reductions of $14,457,000 for general supply schedule savings and 
$7,000,000 for management reform savings, in local funds to one or more 
of the appropriation headings in this Act: Provided, That the Mayor 
shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate by the 15th calendar day 
after the end of each quarter beginning December 31, 1999, on the 
status of the general supply schedule savings and management reform 
savings projected under this heading.

                       ENTERPRISE AND OTHER FUNDS

         Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For operation of the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington 
Aqueduct, $279,608,000 from other funds (including $236,075,000 for the 
Water and Sewer Authority and $43,533,000 for the Washington Aqueduct) 
of which $35,222,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the District's 
debt service fund for repayment of loans and interest incurred for 
capital improvement projects.
    For construction projects, $197,169,000, as authorized by An Act 
authorizing the laying of watermains and service sewers in the District 
of Columbia, the levying of assessments therefor, and for other 
purposes (33 Stat. 244; Public Law 58-140; D.C. Code, sec. 43-1512 et 
seq.): Provided, That the requirements and restrictions that are 
applicable to general fund capital improvements projects and set forth 
in this Act under the Capital Outlay appropriation title shall apply to 
projects approved under this appropriation title.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established 
by the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1982 (95 Stat. 1174 and 1175; Public Law 97-91), 
for the purpose of implementing the Law to Legalize Lotteries, Daily 
Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for Charitable Purposes in the 
District of Columbia (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, sec. 2-2501 et seq. 
and sec. 22-1516 et seq.), $234,400,000: Provided, That the District of 
Columbia shall identify the source of funding for this appropriation 
title from the District's own locally generated revenues: Provided 
further, That no revenues from Federal sources shall be used to support 
the operations or activities of the Lottery and Charitable Games 
Control Board.

                  Sports and Entertainment Commission

    For the Sports and Entertainment Commission, $10,846,000 from other 
funds for expenses incurred by the Armory Board in the exercise of its 
powers granted by the Act entitled ``An Act To Establish A District of 
Columbia Armory Board, and for other purposes'' (62 Stat. 339; D.C. 
Code, sec. 2-301 et seq.) and the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 
1957 (71 Stat. 619; Public Law 85-300; D.C. Code, sec. 2-321 et seq.): 
Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a budget for the Armory Board for 
the forthcoming fiscal year as required by section 442(b) of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 824; Public Law 93-198; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-301(b)).

  District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation

    For the District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit 
Corporation, established by D.C. Law 11-212, D.C. Code, sec. 32-262.2, 
$133,443,000 of which $44,435,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
general fund and $89,008,000 from other funds.

                 District of Columbia Retirement Board

    For the District of Columbia Retirement Board, established by 
section 121 of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979 
(93 Stat. 866; D.C. Code, sec. 1-711), $9,892,000 from the earnings of 
the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, investment, 
and other fees and administrative expenses of the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board: Provided, That the District of Columbia Retirement 
Board shall provide to the Congress and to the Council of the District 
of Columbia a quarterly report of the allocations of charges by fund 
and of expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for transmittal 
to the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized accounting of 
the planned use of appropriated funds in time for each annual budget 
submission and the actual use of such funds in time for each annual 
audited financial report: Provided further, That section 121(c)(1) of 
the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
711(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``the total amount to which a member 
may be entitled'' and all that follows and inserting the following: 
``the total amount to which a member may be entitled under this 
subsection during a year (beginning with 1998) may not exceed $5,000, 
except that in the case of the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman 
of the Investment Committee of the Board, such amount may not exceed 
$7,500 (beginning with 2000).''.

                      Correctional Industries Fund

    For the Correctional Industries Fund, established by the District 
of Columbia Correctional Industries Establishment Act (78 Stat. 1000; 
Public Law 88-622), $1,810,000 from other funds.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $50,226,000 
from other funds.

                             Capital Outlay


                         (Including Rescissions)

    For construction projects, $1,260,524,000 of which $929,450,000 is 
from local funds, $54,050,000 is from the highway trust fund, and 
$277,024,000 is from Federal funds, and a rescission of $41,886,500 
from local funds appropriated under this heading in prior fiscal years, 
for a net amount of $1,218,637,500 to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That funds for use of each capital project implementing 
agency shall be managed and controlled in accordance with all 
procedures and limitations established under the Financial Management 
System: Provided further, That all funds provided by this appropriation 
title shall be available only for the specific projects and purposes 
intended: Provided further, That notwithstanding the foregoing, all 
authorizations for capital outlay projects, except those projects 
covered by the first sentence of section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 90-495; D.C. Code, sec. 
7-134, note), for which funds are provided by this appropriation title, 
shall expire on September 30, 2001, except authorizations for projects 
as to which funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to 
September 30, 2001: Provided further, That upon expiration of any such 
project authorization, the funds provided herein for the project shall 
lapse.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 102. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all vouchers 
covering expenditures of appropriations contained in this Act shall be 
audited before payment by the designated certifying official, and the 
vouchers as approved shall be paid by checks issued by the designated 
disbursing official.
    Sec. 103. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations in this Act shall be available, when 
authorized by the Mayor, for allowances for privately owned automobiles 
and motorcycles used for the performance of official duties at rates 
established by the Mayor: Provided, That such rates shall not exceed 
the maximum prevailing rates for such vehicles as prescribed in the 
Federal Property Management Regulations 101-7 (Federal Travel 
Regulations).
    Sec. 105. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for 
expenses of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations 
concerned with the work of the District of Columbia government, when 
authorized by the Mayor: Provided, That in the case of the Council of 
the District of Columbia, funds may be expended with the authorization 
of the chair of the Council.
    Sec. 106. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided, That nothing contained in 
this section shall be construed as modifying or affecting the 
provisions of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the District of Columbia 
Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947 (70 Stat. 78; Public Law 84-460; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 107. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of public assistance without reference to the requirement of 
section 544 of the District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982 
(D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Code, sec. 3-205.44), and for the payment of the 
non-Federal share of funds necessary to qualify for grants under 
subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994.
    Sec. 108. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 109. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be 
used to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the Subcommittee on the District of 
Columbia of the House Committee on Government Reform, the Subcommittee 
on Oversight of Government Management, Restructuring and the District 
of Columbia of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the 
Council of the District of Columbia, or their duly authorized 
representative.
    Sec. 111. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977 
(D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et seq.).
    Sec. 112. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including 
boycott designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 113. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 114. The Mayor shall not borrow any funds for capital projects 
unless the Mayor has obtained prior approval from the Council of the 
District of Columbia, by resolution, identifying the projects and 
amounts to be financed with such borrowings.
    Sec. 115. The Mayor shall not expend any moneys borrowed for 
capital projects for the operating expenses of the District of Columbia 
government.
    Sec. 116. None of the funds provided under this Act to the agencies 
funded by this Act, both Federal and District government agencies, that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for an agency through 
a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) 
eliminates a program, project, or responsibility center; (3) 
establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, limited or 
increased by Congress in the Act; (4) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any program, project, or responsibility center for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (5) reestablishes through 
reprogramming any program or project previously deferred through 
reprogramming; (6) augments existing programs, projects, or 
responsibility centers through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) increases by 20 
percent or more personnel assigned to a specific program, project, or 
responsibility center; unless the Appropriations Committees of both the 
Senate and House of Representatives are notified in writing 30 days in 
advance of any reprogramming as set forth in this section.
    Sec. 117. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of the District of 
Columbia government.
    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to procure passenger automobiles as defined in 
the Automobile Fuel Efficiency Act of 1980 (94 Stat. 1824; Public Law 
96-425; 15 U.S.C. 2001(2)), with an Environmental Protection Agency 
estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to security, emergency 
rescue, or armored vehicles.
    Sec. 119. (a) City Administrator.--The last sentence of section 
422(7) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(7)) is amended by striking ``, not to exceed'' and all that follows 
and inserting a period.
    (b) Board of Directors of Redevelopment Land Agency.--Section 
1108(c)(2)(F) of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive 
Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-612.8(c)(2)(F)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(F) Redevelopment Land Agency board members shall be paid per 
    diem compensation at a rate established by the Mayor, except that 
    such rate may not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
    basic pay for level 15 of the District Schedule for each day 
    (including travel time) during which they are engaged in the actual 
    performance of their duties.''.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Code, sec. 1-601.1 et 
seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(3)), shall apply with respect to the compensation of District of 
Columbia employees: Provided, That for pay purposes, employees of the 
District of Columbia government shall not be subject to the provisions 
of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 121. No later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the District of Columbia the 
new fiscal year 2000 revenue estimates as of the end of the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2000. These estimates shall be used in the 
budget request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001. The 
officially revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the midyear 
report.
    Sec. 122. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth 
in section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-1183.3), except that the 
District of Columbia government or any agency thereof may renew or 
extend sole source contracts for which competition is not feasible or 
practical: Provided, That the determination as to whether to invoke the 
competitive bidding process has been made in accordance with duly 
promulgated rules and procedures and said determination has been 
reviewed and approved by the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 123. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), the term 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be synonymous with and refer 
specifically to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act, 
and any sequestration order shall be applied to each of the accounts 
rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts: Provided, That 
sequestration orders shall not be applied to any account that is 
specifically exempted from sequestration by the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 124. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 
1037; Public Law 99-177), after the amounts appropriated to the 
District of Columbia for the fiscal year involved have been paid to the 
District of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall pay 
to the Secretary of the Treasury, within 15 days after receipt of a 
request therefor from the Secretary of the Treasury, such amounts as 
are sequestered by the order: Provided, That the sequestration 
percentage specified in the order shall be applied proportionately to 
each of the Federal appropriation accounts in this Act that are not 
specifically exempted from sequestration by such Act.
    Sec. 125. (a) An entity of the District of Columbia government may 
accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal year 2000 if--
        (1) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the gift or 
    donation: Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia 
    may accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor; and
        (2) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry out its 
    authorized functions or duties.
    (b) Each entity of the District of Columbia government shall keep 
accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under subsection (a) of this section, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``entity of the 
District of Columbia government'' includes an independent agency of the 
District of Columbia.
    (d) This section shall not apply to the District of Columbia Board 
of Education, which may, pursuant to the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia, accept and use gifts to the public schools 
without prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 126. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 127. (a) The University of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the Mayor, the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority, and the Council of the District of 
Columbia no later than 15 calendar days after the end of each quarter a 
report that sets forth--
        (1) current quarter expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
    expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
    projections versus budget broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, and object class, and for all funds, 
    non-appropriated funds, and capital financing;
        (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and the 
    amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
    responsibility center, detailed object, and for all funding 
    sources;
        (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
    annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget to 
    which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of control 
    center and responsibility center, and contract identifying codes 
    used by the University of the District of Columbia; payments made 
    in the last quarter and year-to-date, the total amount of the 
    contract and total payments made for the contract and any 
    modifications, extensions, renewals; and specific modifications 
    made to each contract in the last month;
        (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that have been made 
    by the University of the District of Columbia within the last 
    quarter in compliance with applicable law; and
        (5) changes made in the last quarter to the organizational 
    structure of the University of the District of Columbia, displaying 
    previous and current control centers and responsibility centers, 
    the names of the organizational entities that have been changed, 
    the name of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and 
    the reasons for the structural change.
    (b) The Mayor, the Authority, and the Council shall provide the 
Congress by February 1, 2000, a summary, analysis, and recommendations 
on the information provided in the quarterly reports.
    Sec. 128. Funds authorized or previously appropriated to the 
government of the District of Columbia by this or any other Act to 
procure the necessary hardware and installation of new software, 
conversion, testing, and training to improve or replace its financial 
management system are also available for the acquisition of accounting 
and financial management services and the leasing of necessary 
hardware, software or any other related goods or services, as 
determined by the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 129. None of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the fees of an attorney who represents a party who 
prevails in an action, including an administrative proceeding, brought 
against the District of Columbia Public Schools under the Individuals 
with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) if--
        (1) the hourly rate of compensation of the attorney exceeds the 
    hourly rate of compensation under section 11-2604(a), District of 
    Columbia Code; or
        (2) the maximum amount of compensation of the attorney exceeds 
    the maximum amount of compensation under section 11-2604(b)(1), 
    District of Columbia Code, except that compensation and 
    reimbursement in excess of such maximum may be approved for 
    extended or complex representation in accordance with section 11-
    2604(c), District of Columbia Code.
    Sec. 130. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 131. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 
(D.C. Law 9-114; D.C. Code, sec. 36-1401 et seq.) or to otherwise 
implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, 
cohabiting couples (whether homosexual, heterosexual, or lesbian), 
including but not limited to registration for the purpose of extending 
employment, health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the 
same basis that such benefits are extended to legally married couples.
    Sec. 132. The Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public 
Schools shall submit to the Congress, the Mayor, the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, 
and the Council of the District of Columbia no later than 15 calendar 
days after the end of each quarter a report that sets forth--
        (1) current quarter expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
    expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
    projections versus budget, broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, agency reporting code, and object 
    class, and for all funds, including capital financing;
        (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and the 
    amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
    responsibility center, detailed object, and agency reporting code, 
    and for all funding sources;
        (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
    annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget to 
    which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, and agency reporting code; and 
    contract identifying codes used by the District of Columbia Public 
    Schools; payments made in the last quarter and year-to-date, the 
    total amount of the contract and total payments made for the 
    contract and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and specific 
    modifications made to each contract in the last month;
        (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that are required to 
    be, and have been, submitted to the Board of Education; and
        (5) changes made in the last quarter to the organizational 
    structure of the District of Columbia Public Schools, displaying 
    previous and current control centers and responsibility centers, 
    the names of the organizational entities that have been changed, 
    the name of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and 
    the reasons for the structural change.
    Sec. 133. (a) In General.--The Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of Columbia 
shall annually compile an accurate and verifiable report on the 
positions and employees in the public school system and the university, 
respectively. The annual report shall set forth--
        (1) the number of validated schedule A positions in the 
    District of Columbia public schools and the University of the 
    District of Columbia for fiscal year 1999, fiscal year 2000, and 
    thereafter on full-time equivalent basis, including a compilation 
    of all positions by control center, responsibility center, funding 
    source, position type, position title, pay plan, grade, and annual 
    salary; and
        (2) a compilation of all employees in the District of Columbia 
    public schools and the University of the District of Columbia as of 
    the preceding December 31, verified as to its accuracy in 
    accordance with the functions that each employee actually performs, 
    by control center, responsibility center, agency reporting code, 
    program (including funding source), activity, location for 
    accounting purposes, job title, grade and classification, annual 
    salary, and position control number.
    (b) Submission.--The annual report required by subsection (a) of 
this section shall be submitted to the Congress, the Mayor, the 
District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
Authority, not later than February 15 of each year.
    Sec. 134. (a) No later than October 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, and each succeeding year, the Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of Columbia 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, 
the District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the public 
school system and the University of the District of Columbia for such 
fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation 
and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-
personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the Superintendent 
of the District of Columbia Public Schools and the University of the 
District of Columbia submit to the Mayor of the District of Columbia 
for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission to the Council of the 
District of Columbia pursuant to section 442 of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 135. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, acting on behalf of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools (DCPS) in formulating the DCPS budget, the 
Board of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia, the 
Board of Library Trustees, and the Board of Governors of the University 
of the District of Columbia School of Law shall vote on and approve the 
respective annual or revised budgets for such entities before 
submission to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for inclusion in 
the Mayor's budget submission to the Council of the District of 
Columbia in accordance with section 442 of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), or before 
submitting their respective budgets directly to the Council.
    Sec. 136. (a) Ceiling on Total Operating Expenses.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses 
    for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2000 under the caption 
    ``Division of Expenses'' shall not exceed the lesser of--
            (A) the sum of the total revenues of the District of 
        Columbia for such fiscal year; or
            (B) $5,515,379,000 (of which $152,753,000 shall be from 
        intra-District funds and $3,113,854,000 shall be from local 
        funds), which amount may be increased by the following:
                (i) proceeds of one-time transactions, which are 
            expended for emergency or unanticipated operating or 
            capital needs approved by the District of Columbia 
            Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
            Authority; or
                (ii) after notification to the Council, additional 
            expenditures which the Chief Financial Officer of the 
            District of Columbia certifies will produce additional 
            revenues during such fiscal year at least equal to 200 
            percent of such additional expenditures, and that are 
            approved by the Authority.
        (2) Enforcement.--The Chief Financial Officer of the District 
    of Columbia and the Authority shall take such steps as are 
    necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets the 
    requirements of this section, including the apportioning by the 
    Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and funds made 
    available to the District during fiscal year 2000, except that the 
    Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses 
    any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations issued 
    for capital projects.
    (b) Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in Ceiling.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Mayor, in 
    consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, during a control 
    year, as defined in section 305(4) of the District of Columbia 
    Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995 
    (Public Law 104-8; 109 Stat. 152), may accept, obligate, and expend 
    Federal, private, and other grants received by the District 
    government that are not reflected in the amounts appropriated in 
    this Act.
        (2) Requirement of chief financial officer report and authority 
    approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant may be 
    accepted, obligated, or expended pursuant to paragraph (1) until--
            (A) the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia 
        submits to the Authority a report setting forth detailed 
        information regarding such grant; and
            (B) the Authority has reviewed and approved the acceptance, 
        obligation, and expenditure of such grant in accordance with 
        review and approval procedures consistent with the provisions 
        of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Act of 1995.
        (3) Prohibition on spending in anticipation of approval or 
    receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the general 
    fund or other funds of the District government in anticipation of 
    the approval or receipt of a grant under paragraph (2)(B) of this 
    subsection or in anticipation of the approval or receipt of a 
    Federal, private, or other grant not subject to such paragraph.
        (4) Quarterly reports.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
    District of Columbia shall prepare a quarterly report setting forth 
    detailed information regarding all Federal, private, and other 
    grants subject to this subsection. Each such report shall be 
    submitted to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to the 
    Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
    the Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the quarter 
    covered by the report.
    (c) Report on Expenditures by Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.--Not later than 20 calendar days after 
the end of each fiscal quarter starting October 1, 1999, the Authority 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Government Reform 
of the House, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
providing an itemized accounting of all non-appropriated funds 
obligated or expended by the Authority for the quarter. The report 
shall include information on the date, amount, purpose, and vendor 
name, and a description of the services or goods provided with respect 
to the expenditures of such funds.
    Sec. 137. If a department or agency of the government of the 
District of Columbia is under the administration of a court-appointed 
receiver or other court-appointed official during fiscal year 2000 or 
any succeeding fiscal year, the receiver or official shall prepare and 
submit to the Mayor, for inclusion in the annual budget of the District 
of Columbia for the year, annual estimates of the expenditures and 
appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the 
department or agency. All such estimates shall be forwarded by the 
Mayor to the Council, for its action pursuant to sections 446 and 
603(c) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, without revision but 
subject to the Mayor's recommendations. Notwithstanding any provision 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-
198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-101 et seq.) the Council may comment or make 
recommendations concerning such annual estimates but shall have no 
authority under such Act to revise such estimates.
    Sec. 138. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, an employee of the District of Columbia public schools 
shall be--
        (1) classified as an Educational Service employee;
        (2) placed under the personnel authority of the Board of 
    Education; and
        (3) subject to all Board of Education rules.
    (b) School-based personnel shall constitute a separate competitive 
area from nonschool-based personnel who shall not compete with school-
based personnel for retention purposes.
    Sec. 139. (a) Restrictions on Use of Official Vehicles.--Except as 
otherwise provided in this section, none of the funds made available by 
this Act or by any other Act may be used to provide any officer or 
employee of the District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless 
the officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of the 
officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of this 
paragraph, the term ``official duties'' does not include travel between 
the officer's or employee's residence and workplace (except: (1) in the 
case of an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police Department 
who resides in the District of Columbia or is otherwise designated by 
the Chief of the Department; (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, 
an officer or employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
is on call 24 hours a day; (3) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; 
and (4) the Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia).
    (b) Inventory of Vehicles.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia shall submit, by November 15, 1999, an inventory, 
as of September 30, 1999, of all vehicles owned, leased or operated by 
the District of Columbia government. The inventory shall include, but 
not be limited to, the department to which the vehicle is assigned; the 
year and make of the vehicle; the acquisition date and cost; the 
general condition of the vehicle; annual operating and maintenance 
costs; current mileage; and whether the vehicle is allowed to be taken 
home by a District officer or employee and if so, the officer or 
employee's title and resident location.
    Sec. 140. (a) Source of Payment for Employees Detailed Within 
Government.--For purposes of determining the amount of funds expended 
by any entity within the District of Columbia government during fiscal 
year 2000 and each succeeding fiscal year, any expenditures of the 
District government attributable to any officer or employee of the 
District government who provides services which are within the 
authority and jurisdiction of the entity (including any portion of the 
compensation paid to the officer or employee attributable to the time 
spent in providing such services) shall be treated as expenditures made 
from the entity's budget, without regard to whether the officer or 
employee is assigned to the entity or otherwise treated as an officer 
or employee of the entity.
    (b) Modification of Reduction in Force Procedures.--The District of 
Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), is further amended in section 2408(a) by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting, ``2000''; in subsection (b), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''; in subsection (i), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting, ``2000''; and in subsection (k), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting, ``2000''.
    Sec. 141. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later 
than 120 days after the date that a District of Columbia Public Schools 
(DCPS) student is referred for evaluation or assessment--
        (1) the District of Columbia Board of Education, or its 
    successor, and DCPS shall assess or evaluate a student who may have 
    a disability and who may require special education services; and
        (2) if a student is classified as having a disability, as 
    defined in section 101(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities 
    Education Act (84 Stat. 175; 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) or in section 
    7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 359; 29 U.S.C. 
    706(8)), the Board and DCPS shall place that student in an 
    appropriate program of special education services.
    Sec. 142. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products to 
    the greatest extent practicable.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    agency of the Federal or District of Columbia government shall 
    provide to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the 
    statement made in paragraph (1) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 143. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
purposes of the annual independent audit of the District of Columbia 
government (including the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority) for fiscal year 2000 unless--
        (1) the audit is conducted by the Inspector General of the 
    District of Columbia pursuant to section 208(a)(4) of the District 
    of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
    1182.8(a)(4)); and
        (2) the audit includes a comparison of audited actual year-end 
    results with the revenues submitted in the budget document for such 
    year and the appropriations enacted into law for such year.
    Sec. 144. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any 
office, agency or entity to expend funds for programs or functions for 
which a reorganization plan is required but has not been approved by 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority. Appropriations made by this Act for such programs 
or functions are conditioned only on the approval by the Authority of 
the required reorganization plans.
    Sec. 145. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, the evaluation process and instruments for evaluating 
District of Columbia Public School employees shall be a non-negotiable 
item for collective bargaining purposes.
    Sec. 146. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used by 
the District of Columbia Corporation Counsel or any other officer or 
entity of the District government to provide assistance for any 
petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    Sec. 147. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
transfer or confine inmates classified above the medium security level, 
as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons classification instrument, 
to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center located in Youngstown, Ohio.
    Sec. 148. (a) Section 202(i) of the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-
8), as added by section 155 of the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1999, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(j) Reserve.--
        ``(1) In general.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000, the plan or 
    budget submitted pursuant to this Act shall contain $150,000,000 
    for a reserve to be established by the Mayor, Council of the 
    District of Columbia, Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
    Columbia, and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
    Management Assistance Authority.
        ``(2) Conditions on use.--The reserve funds--
            ``(A) shall only be expended according to criteria 
        established by the Chief Financial Officer and approved by the 
        Mayor, Council of the District of Columbia, and District of 
        Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
        Authority, but, in no case may any of the reserve funds be 
        expended until any other surplus funds have been used;
            ``(B) shall not be used to fund the agencies of the 
        District of Columbia government under court ordered 
        receivership; and
            ``(C) shall not be used to fund shortfalls in the projected 
        reductions budgeted in the budget proposed by the District of 
        Columbia government for general supply schedule savings and 
        management reform savings.
        ``(3) Report requirement.--The Authority shall notify the 
    Appropriations Committees of both the Senate and House of 
    Representatives in writing 30 days in advance of any expenditure of 
    the reserve funds.''.
    (b) Section 202 of such Act (Public Law 104-8), as amended by 
subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Positive Fund Balance.--
        ``(1) In general.--The District of Columbia shall maintain at 
    the end of a fiscal year an annual positive fund balance in the 
    general fund of not less than 4 percent of the projected general 
    fund expenditures for the following fiscal year.
        ``(2) Excess funds.--Of funds remaining in excess of the 
    amounts required by paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) not more than 50 percent may be used for authorized 
        non-recurring expenses; and
            ``(B) not less than 50 percent shall be used to reduce the 
        debt of the District of Columbia.''.
    Sec. 149. (a) No later than November 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority a revised appropriated funds operating budget for all 
agencies of the District of Columbia government for such fiscal year 
that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that 
realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal-
services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District 
of Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 150. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the 
hypodermic injection of any illegal drug, or for any payment to any 
individual or entity who carries out any such program.
    Sec. 151. (a) Restrictions.--None of the funds contained in this 
Act may be used to make rental payments under a lease for the use of 
real property by the District of Columbia government (including any 
independent agency of the District) unless--
        (1) the lease and an abstract of the lease have been filed with 
    the central office of the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development; 
    and
        (2)(A) the District of Columbia government occupies the 
    property during the period of time covered by the rental payment; 
    or
        (B) within 60 days of the enactment of this Act the Mayor 
    certifies to Congress and the landlord that occupancy is 
    impracticable and submits with the certification a plan to 
    terminate or renegotiate the lease or rental agreement.
    (b) Unoccupied Property.--After 120 days from the date of the 
enactment of this Act, none of the funds contained in this Act may be 
used to make rental payments for property described in subsection 
(a)(2)(B) of this section.
    (c) Semi-Annual Reports by Mayor.--Not later than 20 days after the 
end of each 6-month period that begins on October 1, 1999, the Mayor of 
the District of Columbia shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate listing 
the leases for the use of real property by the District of Columbia 
government that were in effect during the 6-month period, and including 
for each such lease the location of the property, the name of any 
person with any ownership interest in the property, the rate of 
payment, the period of time covered by the lease, and the conditions 
under which the lease may be terminated.
    Sec. 152. None of the funds contained in this Act or the District 
of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999, may be used to enter into a lease 
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act (or to make rental 
payments under such a lease) for the use of real property by the 
District of Columbia government (including any independent agency of 
the District) or to purchase real property for the use of the District 
of Columbia government (including any independent agency of the 
District) or to manage real property for the use of the District of 
Columbia (including any independent agency of the District) unless--
        (1) the Mayor certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of 
    the House of Representatives and the Senate that existing real 
    property available to the District (whether leased or owned by the 
    District government) is not suitable for the purposes intended;
        (2) notwithstanding any other provisions of law, there is made 
    available for sale or lease all property of the District of 
    Columbia which the Mayor from time-to-time determines is surplus to 
    the needs of the District of Columbia;
        (3) the Mayor implements a program for the periodic survey of 
    all District property to determine if it is surplus to the needs of 
    the District; and
        (4) the Mayor within 60 days of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act has filed a report with the appropriations and authorizing 
    committees of the House and Senate providing a comprehensive plan 
    for the management of District of Columbia real property assets and 
    is proceeding with the implementation of the plan.
    Sec. 153. Section 603(e)(2)(B) of the Student Loan Marketing 
Association Reorganization Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 
3009-293) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``and public charter'' after ``public''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``Of such amounts and 
    proceeds, $5,000,000 shall be set aside for use as a credit 
    enhancement fund for public charter schools in the District of 
    Columbia, with the administration of the fund (including the making 
    of loans) to be carried out by the Mayor through a committee 
    consisting of three individuals appointed by the Mayor of the 
    District of Columbia and two individuals appointed by the Public 
    Charter School Board established under section 2214 of the District 
    of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995.''.
    Sec. 154. The Mayor, District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority, and the Superintendent of Schools 
shall implement a process to dispose of excess public school real 
property within 90 days of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 155. Section 2003 of the District of Columbia School Reform 
Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; D.C. Code, sec. 31-2851) is amended by 
striking ``during the period'' and ``and ending 5 years after such 
date.''.
    Sec. 156. Section 2206(c) of the District of Columbia School Reform 
Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; D.C. Code, sec. 31-2853.16(c)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``, except that a 
preference in admission may be given to an applicant who is a sibling 
of a student already attending or selected for admission to the public 
charter school in which the applicant is seeking enrollment.''.
    Sec. 157. (a) Transfer of Funds.--There is hereby transferred from 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority (hereafter referred to as the ``Authority'') to 
the District of Columbia the sum of $18,000,000 for severance payments 
to individuals separated from employment during fiscal year 2000 (under 
such terms and conditions as the Mayor considers appropriate), expanded 
contracting authority of the Mayor, and the implementation of a system 
of managed competition among public and private providers of goods and 
services by and on behalf of the District of Columbia: Provided, That 
such funds shall be used only in accordance with a plan agreed to by 
the Council and the Mayor and approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That the Authority and the Mayor shall coordinate the spending 
of funds for this program so that continuous progress is made. The 
Authority shall release said funds, on a quarterly basis, to reimburse 
such expenses, so long as the Authority certifies that the expenses 
reduce re-occurring future costs at an annual ratio of at least 2 to 1 
relative to the funds provided, and that the program is in accordance 
with the best practices of municipal government.
    (b) Source of Funds.--The amount transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be derived from interest earned on accounts held by the Authority 
on behalf of the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 158. (a) In General.--The District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (hereafter referred 
to as the ``Authority''), working with the Commonwealth of Virginia and 
the Director of the National Park Service, shall carry out a project to 
complete all design requirements and all requirements for compliance 
with the National Environmental Policy Act for the construction of 
expanded lane capacity for the Fourteenth Street Bridge.
    (b) Source of Funds; Transfer.--For purposes of carrying out the 
project under subsection (a), there is hereby transferred to the 
Authority from the District of Columbia dedicated highway fund 
established pursuant to section 3(a) of the District of Columbia 
Emergency Highway Relief Act (Public Law 104-21; D.C. Code, sec. 7-
134.2(a)) an amount not to exceed $5,000,000.
    Sec. 159. (a) In General.--The Mayor of the District of Columbia 
shall carry out through the Army Corps of Engineers, an Anacostia River 
environmental cleanup program.
    (b) Source of Funds.--There are hereby transferred to the Mayor 
from the escrow account held by the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority pursuant to section 
134 of division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 
2681-552), for infrastructure needs of the District of Columbia, 
$5,000,000.
    Sec. 160. (a) Prohibiting Payment of Administrative Costs From 
Fund.--Section 16(e) of the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act 
of 1996 (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435(e)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and administrative costs necessary to carry 
    out this chapter''; and
        (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
    following: ``, and no monies in the Fund may be used for any other 
    purpose.''.
    (b) Maintenance of Fund in Treasury of the United States.--
        (1) In general.--Section 16(a) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-
    435(a)) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting 
    the following: ``The Fund shall be maintained as a separate fund in 
    the Treasury of the United States. All amounts deposited to the 
    credit of the Fund are appropriated without fiscal year limitation 
    to make payments as authorized under subsection (e).''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 16 of such Act (D.C. Code, 
    sec. 3-435) is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (c) Deposit of Other Fees and Receipts Into Fund.--Section 16(c) of 
such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435(c)) is amended by inserting after 
``1997,'' the second place it appears the following: ``any other fines, 
fees, penalties, or assessments that the Court determines necessary to 
carry out the purposes of the Fund,''.
    (d) Annual Transfer of Unobligated Balances to Miscellaneous 
Receipts of Treasury.--Section 16 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435), 
as amended by subsection (b)(2), is amended by inserting after 
subsection (c) the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Any unobligated balance existing in the Fund in excess of 
$250,000 as of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 
2000) shall be transferred to miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury of 
the United States not later than 30 days after the end of the fiscal 
year.''.
    (e) Ratification of Payments and Deposits.--Any payments made from 
or deposits made to the Crime Victims Compensation Fund on or after 
April 9, 1997 are hereby ratified, to the extent such payments and 
deposits are authorized under the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation 
Act of 1996 (D.C. Code, sec. 3-421 et seq.), as amended by this 
section.
    Sec. 161. Certification.--None of the funds contained in this Act 
may be used after the expiration of the 60-day period that begins on 
the date of the enactment of this Act to pay the salary of any chief 
financial officer of any office of the District of Columbia government 
(including any independent agency of the District) who has not filed a 
certification with the Mayor and the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia that the officer understands the duties and 
restrictions applicable to the officer and their agency as a result of 
this Act.
    Sec. 162. The proposed budget of the government of the District of 
Columbia for fiscal year 2001 that is submitted by the District to 
Congress shall specify potential adjustments that might become 
necessary in the event that the management savings achieved by the 
District during the year do not meet the level of management savings 
projected by the District under the proposed budget.
    Sec. 163. In submitting any document showing the budget for an 
office of the District of Columbia government (including an independent 
agency of the District) that contains a category of activities labeled 
as ``other'', ``miscellaneous'', or a similar general, nondescriptive 
term, the document shall include a description of the types of 
activities covered in the category and a detailed breakdown of the 
amount allocated for each such activity.
    Sec. 164. (a) Authorizing Corps of Engineers to perform Repairs and 
Improvements.--
        (1) In General.--In using the funds made available under this 
    Act or any other Act for carrying out improvements to the Southwest 
    Waterfront in the District of Columbia (including upgrading marina 
    dock pilings and paving and restoring walkways in the marina and 
    fish market areas) for the portions of Federal property in the 
    Southwest quadrant of the District of Columbia within Lots 847 and 
    848, a portion of Lot 846, and the unassessed Federal real property 
    adjacent to Lot 848 in Square 473, any entity of the District of 
    Columbia government (including the District of Columbia Financial 
    Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority or its designee) 
    may place orders for engineering and construction and related 
    services with the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army 
    Corps of Engineers. The Chief of Engineers may accept such orders 
    on a reimbursable basis and may provide any part of such services 
    by contract. In providing such services, the Chief of Engineers 
    shall follow the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the 
    implementing Department of Defense regulations.
        (2) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect as if 
    included in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999, and 
    shall apply to fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    (b) Timing for Availability of Funds Under 1999 Act.--
        (1) In general.--The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
    1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-124) is amended in the 
    item relating to ``FEDERAL FUNDS--Federal Payment for Waterfront 
    Improvements''--
            (A) by striking ``existing lessees'' the first place it 
        appears and inserting ``existing lessees of the Marina''; and
            (B) by striking ``existing lessees'' the second place it 
        appears and inserting ``such lessees''.
        (2) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect as if 
    included in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999.
    Sec. 165. It is the sense of the Congress that the District of 
Columbia should not impose or take into consideration any height, 
square footage, set-back, or other construction or zoning requirements 
in authorizing the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for a project 
of the American National Red Cross at 2025 E Street Northwest, 
Washington, D.C., in as much as this project is subject to approval of 
the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine 
Arts pursuant to section 11 of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint 
Resolution to grant authority for the erection of a permanent building 
for the American National Red Cross, District of Columbia Chapter, 
Washington, District of Columbia'', approved July 1, 1947 (Public Law 
100-637; 36 U.S.C. 300108 note).
    Sec. 166. (a) Permitting Court Services and Offender Supervision 
Agency to Carry Out Sex Offender Registration.--Section 11233(c) of the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997 (D.C. Code, sec. 24-1233(c)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(5) Sex offender registration.--The Agency shall carry out 
    sex offender registration functions in the District of Columbia, 
    and shall have the authority to exercise all powers and functions 
    relating to sex offender registration that are granted to the 
    Agency under any District of Columbia law.''.
    (b) Authority During Transition to Full Operation of Agency.--
        (1) Authority of pretrial services, parole, adult probation and 
    offender supervision trustee.--Notwithstanding section 11232(b)(1) 
    of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
    Improvement Act of 1997 (D.C. Code, sec. 24-1232(b)(1)), the 
    Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision 
    Trustee appointed under section 11232(a) of such Act (hereafter 
    referred to as the ``Trustee'') shall, in accordance with section 
    11232 of such Act, exercise the powers and functions of the Court 
    Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of 
    Columbia (hereafter referred to as the ``Agency'') relating to sex 
    offender registration (as granted to the Agency under any District 
    of Columbia law) only upon the Trustee's certification that the 
    Trustee is able to assume such powers and functions.
        (2) Authority of metropolitan police department.--During the 
    period that begins on the date of the enactment of the Sex Offender 
    Registration Emergency Act of 1999 and ends on the date the Trustee 
    makes the certification described in paragraph (1), the 
    Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia shall 
    have the authority to carry out any powers and functions relating 
    to sex offender registration that are granted to the Agency or to 
    the Trustee under any District of Columbia law.
    Sec. 167. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or 
otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or 
distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
    Sec. 168. (a) In General.--There is hereby transferred from the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority (hereafter referred to as the ``Authority'') to the District 
of Columbia the sum of $5,000,000 for the Mayor, in consultation with 
the Council of the District of Columbia, to provide offsets against 
local taxes for a commercial revitalization program, such program to be 
available in enterprise zones and low and moderate income areas in the 
District of Columbia: Provided, That in carrying out such a program, 
the Mayor shall use Federal commercial revitalization proposals 
introduced in Congress as a guideline.
    (b) Source of Funds.--The amount transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be derived from interest earned on accounts held by the Authority 
on behalf of the District of Columbia.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Mayor shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives on the 
progress made in carrying out the commercial revitalization program.
    Sec. 169. Wireless Communications. (a) In General.--Not later than 
7 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, 
shall--
        (1) implement the notice of decision approved by the National 
    Capital Regional Director, dated April 7, 1999, including the 
    provisions of the notice of decision concerning the issuance of 
    right-of-way permits at market rates; and
        (2) expend such sums as are necessary to carry out paragraph 
    (1).
    (b) Antenna Applications.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the receipt of 
    an application, a Federal agency that receives an application 
    submitted after the enactment of this Act to locate a wireless 
    communications antenna on Federal property in the District of 
    Columbia or surrounding area over which the Federal agency 
    exercises control shall take final action on the application, 
    including action on the issuance of right-of-way permits at market 
    rates.
        (2) Existing law.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
    construed to affect the applicability of existing laws regarding:
            (A) judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5, United 
        States Code (the Administrative Procedure Act), and the 
        Communications Act of 1934;
            (B) the National Environmental Policy Act, the National 
        Historic Preservation Act and other applicable Federal 
        statutes; and
            (C) the authority of a State or local government or 
        instrumentality thereof, including the District of Columbia, in 
        the placement, construction, and modification of personal 
        wireless service facilities.
    Sec. 170. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
        (1) The District of Columbia has recently witnessed a spate of 
    senseless killings of innocent citizens caught in the crossfire of 
    shootings. A Justice Department crime victimization survey found 
    that while the city saw a decline in the homicide rate between 1996 
    and 1997, the rate was the highest among a dozen cities and more 
    than double the second highest city.
        (2) The District of Columbia has not made adequate funding 
    available to fight drug abuse in recent years, and the city has not 
    deployed its resources as effectively as possible. In fiscal year 
    1998, $20,900,000 was spent on publicly funded drug treatment in 
    the District compared to $29,000,000 in fiscal year 1993. The 
    District's Addiction and Prevention and Recovery Agency currently 
    has only 2,200 treatment slots, a 50 percent drop from 1994, with 
    more than 1,100 people on waiting lists.
        (3) The District of Columbia has seen a rash of inmate escapes 
    from halfway houses. According to Department of Corrections 
    records, between October 21, 1998 and January 19, 1999, 376 of the 
    1,125 inmates assigned to halfway houses walked away. Nearly 280 of 
    the 376 escapees were awaiting trial including two charged with 
    murder.
        (4) The District of Columbia public schools system faces 
    serious challenges in correcting chronic problems, particularly 
    long-standing deficiencies in providing special education services 
    to the 1 in 10 District students needing program benefits, 
    including backlogged assessments, and repeated failure to meet a 
    compliance agreement on special education reached with the 
    Department of Education.
        (5) Deficiencies in the delivery of basic public services from 
    cleaning streets to waiting time at Department of Motor Vehicles to 
    a rat population estimated earlier this year to exceed the human 
    population have generated considerable public frustration.
        (6) Last year, the District of Columbia forfeited millions of 
    dollars in Federal grants after Federal auditors determined that 
    several agencies exceeded grant restrictions and in other 
    instances, failed to spend funds before the grants expired.
        (7) Findings of a 1999 report by the Annie E. Casey Foundation 
    that measured the well-being of children reflected that, with one 
    exception, the District ranked worst in the United States in every 
    category from infant mortality to the rate of teenage births to 
    statistics chronicling child poverty.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that in 
considering the District of Columbia's fiscal year 2001 budget, the 
Congress will take into consideration progress or lack of progress in 
addressing the following issues:
        (1) Crime, including the homicide rate, implementation of 
    community policing, the number of police officers on local beats, 
    and the closing down of open-air drug markets.
        (2) Access to drug abuse treatment, including the number of 
    treatment slots, the number of people served, the number of people 
    on waiting lists, and the effectiveness of treatment programs.
        (3) Management of parolees and pretrial violent offenders, 
    including the number of halfway house escapes and steps taken to 
    improve monitoring and supervision of halfway house residents to 
    reduce the number of escapes.
        (4) Education, including access to special education services 
    and student achievement.
        (5) Improvement in basic city services, including rat control 
    and abatement.
        (6) Application for and management of Federal grants.
        (7) Indicators of child well-being.
    Sec. 171. The Mayor, prior to using Federal Medicaid payments to 
Disproportionate Share Hospitals to serve a small number of childless 
adults, should consider the recommendations of the Health Care 
Development Commission that has been appointed by the Council of the 
District of Columbia to review this program, and consult and report to 
Congress on the use of these funds.
    Sec. 172. GAO Study of District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
System.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
        (1) conduct a study of the law enforcement, court, prison, 
    probation, parole, and other components of the criminal justice 
    system of the District of Columbia, in order to identify the 
    components most in need of additional resources, including 
    financial, personnel, and management resources; and
        (2) submit to Congress a report on the results of the study 
    under paragraph (1).
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                        TITLE II--TAX REDUCTION

SEC. 201. COMMENDING REDUCTION OF TAXES BY DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

    Congress commends the District of Columbia for its action to reduce 
taxes, and ratifies D.C. Act 13-111 (commonly known as the Service 
Improvement and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Support Act of 1999).

SEC. 202. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this title may be construed to limit the ability of the 
Council of the District of Columbia to amend or repeal any provision of 
law described in this title.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.