[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4104 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                        September 3 (legislative day, August 31), 1998.
      Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
4104) entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Treasury 
Department, the United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of 
the President, and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.'', do pass with the 
following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the 
United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, 
and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1999, and for other purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $150,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate; $120,671,000: Provided, That 
the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall be funded at no less than 
$6,560,800: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

                         Automation Enhancement

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$28,990,000, of which $8,000,000 shall be available to the United 
States Customs Service for the Customs Modernization project, of which 
$5,400,000 shall be available to the Departmental Offices for the 
International Trade Data System, and of which $15,590,000 shall be 
available to the Departmental Offices to modernize its information 
technology infrastructure, for modernizing Treasury's human resource 
systems, and for business solution software: Provided, That these funds 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That these 
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations, Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this 
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be 
used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service 
appropriations for Information Systems: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated for the Customs Modernization project may be 
transferred to the United States Customs Service or obligated until the 
Treasury's Chief Information Officer, through the Treasury Investment 
Review Board, concurs on the plan and milestone schedule for the 
deployment of the system: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Customs Modernization project may be obligated for 
any major system investments prior to the development of an 
architecture which is compliant with the Treasury Information Systems 
Architecture Framework (TISAF) and the General Accounting Office 
certifies to Congress the establishment of measures to enforce 
compliance with the architecture: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $8,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury; $30,678,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, $27,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided shall be available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement; $23,670,000: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure personal 
services contracts: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$600,000 shall be provided for the Gateway program.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, as follows:
    (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $117,761,000; of which 
$1,800,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for lab equipment; of which $1,400,000 shall be available to 
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, including $800,000 for 
cyberpayment studies, $100,000 for money laundering regulations, 
$300,000 for Suspicious Activity Reporting form data analysis, and 
$200,000 for training for Federal, State and local law enforcement; of 
which $158,000 shall be available to the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for equipment replacement needs; $15,403,000 shall be 
available to the United States Secret Service, including $5,000,000 for 
counterfeiting investigations, $7,732,000 for the 2000 candidate/
nominee protection program, and $2,671,000 for forensic and related 
support of investigations of missing and exploited children, of which 
$671,000 shall be available as a grant for activities related to the 
investigations of exploited children and shall remain available until 
expended; of which $45,000,000 shall be available for the Interagency 
Law Enforcement for interagency crime and drug enforcement; and of 
which $54,000,000 shall be made available for the United States Customs 
Service for the purchase of non-intrusive inspection technology, 
including $10,000,000 for a high energy container inspection system for 
sea-going containers, $3,400,000 for the automated targeting system, 
and $40,600,000 to purchase equipment for the Southern land border;
    (2) As authorized by section 32401, $13,239,000 to the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement through grants, 
cooperative agreements, or contracts to local governments for Gang 
Resistance Education and Training: Provided, That notwithstanding 
sections 32401 and 310001, such funds shall be allocated to State and 
local law enforcement and prevention organizations;
    (3) As authorized by section 180103, $1,000,000 to the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center for specialized training for rural law 
enforcement officers.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and 
enhancing community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed 
$9,500 for official reception and representation expenses; room and 
board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
$66,251,000, of which up to $13,450,000 for materials and support costs 
of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept 
and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for: training United States Postal 
Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police officers; State and 
local government law enforcement training on a space-available basis; 
training of foreign law enforcement officials on a space-available 
basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this appropriation, except 
that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary for law enforcement 
training activities in foreign countries undertaken pursuant to section 
801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, 
Public Law 104-32; training of private sector security officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training sponsored by the Center: 
Provided further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from agencies receiving training 
sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, except that 
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide training for the Gang Resistance Education and Training 
program to Federal and non-Federal personnel at any facility in 
partnership with ATF: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$15,360,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$196,490,000, of which not to exceed $13,235,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2001 for information systems modernization 
initiatives: Provided, That of the amount provided, $4,500,000 shall 
remain available until expended for postage and shall not be obligated 
before September 30, 1999: Provided further, That, pursuant to 39 
U.S.C. 3206(a), funds shall continue to be provided to the United 
States Postal Service for postage due: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 2000 
conversion costs pending the availability of funding through emergency 
appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                  debt collection improvement account

    To make payments by the Secretary of the Treasury to reimburse 
agencies for qualified expenses, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720C, not 
to exceed $3,000,000, to be derived from increased agency collections 
of delinquent debt, as authorized by such provision, and to remain 
available until September 30, 2001.

                         federal financing bank

    For liquidation of certain debts to the United States Treasury 
incurred by the Federal Financing Bank pursuant to section 9(b) of the 
Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, $3,317,690,000.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 650 vehicles for police-
type use for replacement only and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
hire of aircraft; services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be 
determined by the Director; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where an assignment to the National Response 
Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson incident requires 
an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to remain overnight at 
his or her post of duty; not to exceed $12,500 for official reception 
and representation expenses; for training of State and local law 
enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, including training 
in connection with the training and acquisition of canines for 
explosives and fire accelerants detection; and provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$529,489,000, of which $27,000,000 may be used for the Youth Crime Gun 
Interdiction Initiative; of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 
924(d)(2): Provided, That such funds shall be available for the 
equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for 
official use by a State or local law enforcement agency if the 
conveyance will be used in drug-related joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, and 
other similar costs of State and local law enforcement officers that 
are incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms: Provided further, That no funds made available by this or 
any other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other 
agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 
1998: Provided further, That of the funds made available, $4,500,000 
shall be made available for the expansion of the National Tracing 
Center: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be 
available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection with 
consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the Treasury, 
the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of 
firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, 
That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay administrative 
expenses or the compensation of any officer or employee of the United 
States to implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to 
change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or 
remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 
1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and act upon 
applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That no funds in 
this Act may be used to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any 
State or local authority who has obtained similar equipment through a 
Federal grant or subsidy unless the State or local authority agrees to 
return that equipment or to repay that grant or subsidy to the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That no funds under this Act may be used 
to electronically retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
923(g)(4) by name or any personal identification code: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to be used 
for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of funding 
through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to 
the President, Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                     United States Customs Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 985 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $30,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service; $1,630,273,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject 
to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1985 (``COBRA''), as amended (19 U.S.C. 
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that Account; of the total, not to 
exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for rental space in 
connection with preclearance operations, and not to exceed $4,000,000 
shall be available until expended for research, not to exceed 
$5,000,000 shall be available until expended for conducting special 
operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081, and up to $8,000,000 shall be 
available until expended for the procurement of automation 
infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and installation: 
Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, an additional $2,400,000 shall be 
made available for staffing and resources for the child pornography 
cybersmuggling initiative: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $1,200,000 shall be available to transfer to the Office of 
the Under Secretary of the Treasury for the oversight of the Customs 
Integrity Awareness Program: Provided further, That $500,000 shall be 
available to fund the expansion of services at the Vermont World Trade 
Office: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the fiscal year aggregate overtime limitation prescribed in 
subsection 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 
267) shall be $30,000: Provided further, That of the amount provided, 
$28,480,000 shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

 operations, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs, the operations of which include: the interdiction of 
narcotics and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and 
other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement or 
administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts; $113,488,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 1999 without the prior approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $3,200,000 shall not be available for obligation for P3 
annualization until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, $20,100,000 shall not be available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $15,000,000 shall be made available for drug interdiction 
activities in South Florida and the Caribbean.

                   harbor maintenance fee collection

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $176,500,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses; and, of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2001 for information systems modernization initiatives: Provided, 
That the sum appropriated herein from the General Fund for fiscal year 
1999 shall be reduced by not more than $4,400,000 as definitive 
security issue fees and Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance 
fees are collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $172,100,000, and in 
addition, $20,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and personnel expenses 
for financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 102 of 
Public Law 101-380: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provisions of law, effective upon enactment and thereafter, the Bureau 
of the Public Debt shall be fully and directly reimbursed by the funds 
described in Public Law 101-136, title I, section 104, 103 Stat. 789 
for costs and services performed by the Bureau in the administration of 
such funds: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; programs to match 
information returns and tax returns; management services; rent and 
utilities; and inspection; including purchase (not to exceed 150 for 
replacement only for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
$3,077,353,000, of which up to $3,700,000 shall be for the Tax 
Counseling for the Elderly Program, and of which not to exceed $25,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $105,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for postage and shall not be obligated before September 30, 
1999: Provided further, That, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3206(a), funds 
shall continue to be provided to the United States Postal Service for 
postage due.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; the 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850), and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $3,164,399,000: Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$175,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $143,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997.

                          information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,329,486,000, which shall be available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That of the amount provided, $68,700,000 
shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to 
be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of 
funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems and 
Related Expenses''.

                   information technology investments

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$137,569,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, for: the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisition, including 
contractual costs associated with operations as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided, That none of these funds is available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That none of these funds 
shall be obligated until the Internal Revenue Service and the 
Department of the Treasury submits to Congress for approval, a plan for 
expenditure.

                       Administrative Provisions

                        internal revenue service

    Section 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 103. The funds provided in this Act for the Internal Revenue 
Service shall be used to provide, as a minimum, the fiscal year 1995 
level of service, staffing, and funding for Taxpayer Services.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
used in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax 
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of 
officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection 
with such collection, including any private sector employees under 
contract to the Internal Revenue Service, complies with subsection (a) 
of section 805 (relating to communications in connection with debt 
collection), and section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the 
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 105. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information.
    Sec. 106. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement 
of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and 
allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff to 
improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigations in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.
    Sec. 108. Sense of the Senate on the Use of Random Selection of 
Returns for Examination by the Internal Revenue Service. (a) 
Findings.--The Senate finds that--
            (1) in 1995, the Internal Revenue Service indefinitely 
        postponed the 1994 Taxpayer Compliance Measurement Program, a 
        program of audits using random selection techniques (in this 
        section referred to as ``random audits'');
            (2) Congress, taxpayer groups, tax practitioners, and 
        others criticized the program because of its cost to and burden 
        on taxpayers;
            (3) there is no law preventing the Internal Revenue Service 
        from resuming its Taxpayer Compliance Measurement Program; and
            (4) random audits may be overly burdensome on taxpayers, 
        particularly low-income taxpayers.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Internal Revenue Service should make it a top 
        priority to ensure fairness to taxpayers when selecting returns 
        for audit;
            (2) the Senate does not approve of the use of random audits 
        of the general population of taxpayers or tax returns; and
            (3) the Internal Revenue Service should not conduct random 
        audits of the general population of taxpayers or tax returns.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase not to exceed 705 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 675 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is obtained in 
advance from the Senate Committee on Appropriations; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year; $584,902,000: 
Provided, That the $6,000,000 provided for the acquisition of the 
Armored Primary Limousines is not obligated before September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, $7,860,000 shall not be 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, 
That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 
2000 conversion costs pending the availability of funding through 
emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the 
President, Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

      acquisition, construction, improvement, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $8,068,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1999, shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1999 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, United States Customs Service, and United States Secret 
Service may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector 
General, Financial Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, 
may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 115. The Secretary is authorized to promote the benefits of 
and encourage the use of electronic tax administration programs, as 
they become available, through the use of mass communications and other 
means. Additionally, the Secretary may implement procedures to pay 
appropriate incentives to commercial concerns for electronic filing 
services: Provided, That such payment may not be made unless the 
electronic filing service is provided without charge to the taxpayer 
whose return is so filed: Provided further, That the Internal Revenue 
Service shall assure the security of all electronic transmissions and 
the full protection of the privacy of taxpayer data.
    Sec. 116. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) and the 
Department of the Treasury shall award a contract for Solicitation No. 
BEP-97-13 (TN) which will permit an uninterrupted source of currency 
paper upon the expiration of the contract for Solicitation 97-10 on 
September 5, 1999 unless otherwise directed by the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 117. Exception to Immunity From Attachment or Execution. (a) 
Section 1610 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
but not limited to section 208(f) of the Foreign Missions Act (22 
U.S.C. 4308(f)), and except as provided in subparagraph (B), any 
property with respect to which financial transactions are prohibited or 
regulated pursuant to section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 5(b)), section 620(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2370(a)), sections 202 and 203 of the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1702), or any other 
proclamation, order, regulation, or license issued pursuant thereto, 
shall be subject to execution or attachment in aid of execution of any 
judgment relating to a claim for which a foreign state (including any 
agency or instrumentality or such state) claiming such property is not 
immune under section 1605(a)(7).
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if, at the time the property 
is expropriated or seized by the foreign state, the property has been 
held in title by a natural person or, if held in trust, has been held 
for the benefit of a natural person or persons.
    ``(2)(A) At the request of any party in whose favor a judgment has 
been issued with respect to a claim for which the foreign state is not 
immune under section 1605(a)(7), the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of State shall fully, promptly, and effectively assist any 
judgment creditor or any court that has issued any such judgment in 
identifying, locating, and executing against the property of that 
foreign state or any agency or instrumentality of such state.
    ``(B) In providing such assistance, the Secretaries--
            ``(i) may provide such information to the court under seal; 
        and
            ``(ii) shall provide the information in a manner sufficient 
        to allow the court to direct the United States Marshall's 
        office to promptly and effectively execute against that 
        property.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1606 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after ``punitive damages'' the following: 
``, except any action under section 1605(a)(7) or 1610(f)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply to any claim for which a foreign state is not immune under 
section 1605(a)(7) of title 28, United States Code, arising before, on, 
or after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 118. Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``the explosive in a 
        fixed shotgun shell'' and insert ``an explosive'';
            (2) in paragraph (7), by striking ``the explosive in a 
        fixed metallic cartridge'' and inserting ``an explosive''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (16) and inserting the following:
    ``(16) The term `antique firearm'--
            ``(A) means any--
                    ``(i) firearm (including any firearm with a 
                matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type 
                of ignition system) manufactured in or before 1898;
                    ``(ii) replica of any firearm described in clause 
                (i), if such replica--
                            ``(I) is not designed or redesigned for 
                        using rimfire or conventional centerfire fixed 
                        ammunition; or
                            ``(II) uses rimfire or conventional 
                        centerfire fixed ammunition that is no longer 
                        manufactured in the United States and that is 
                        not readily available in the ordinary channels 
                        of commercial trade; and
                    ``(iii) muzzle loading rifle, muzzle loading 
                shotgun, or muzzle loading pistol, that--
                            ``(I) is designed to use black powder, or a 
                        black powder substitute; and
                            ``(II) cannot use fixed ammunition; and
            ``(B) does not include any--
                    ``(i) weapon that incorporates a firearm frame or 
                receiver;
                    ``(ii) firearm that is converted into a muzzle 
                loading weapon; or
                    ``(iii) muzzle loading weapon that can be readily 
                converted to fire fixed ammunition by replacing the 
                barrel, bolt, breechblock, or any combination 
                thereof.''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                  Payments to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $71,195,000, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds 
provided shall be available for obligation until October 1, 1999: 
Provided further, That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind 
shall continue to be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and 
rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any individual participating in a State 
or local program of child support enforcement, a fee for information 
requested or provided concerning an address of a postal customer: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post offices 
in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1999.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; 
$250,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President; $52,344,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $8,691,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,512,000.

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$334,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,666,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$4,032,000.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,806,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles $29,140,000: Provided, That of the amount 
provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion 
costs pending the availability of funding through emergency 
appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $60,617,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for the Office of 
Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for testimony 
of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the House and Senate 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That the Director of OMB submit a report within 180 days of 
enactment to the Senate Committee on Appropriations: (1) evaluating the 
implementation of specific government-wide procedures for making 
federally funded research results (including all underlying data and 
supplementary materials) available as appropriate to the public unless 
such research results are currently protected from disclosure under 
current law; and (2) make a determination based on this evaluation for 
the need for additional or revised guidance: Provided further, That OMB 
is directed to submit a report to the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations and Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs that: (1) 
identifies annual five percent reductions in paperwork expected in 
fiscal year 1999 and fiscal year 2000; and (2) issues guidance on the 
requirements of 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801(a)(1) and (3); sections 804(3), and 
808(2), including a standard new rule reporting form for use under 
section 801(a)(1)(A)-(B).

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision 
of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$48,042,000, of which $30,100,000 shall remain available until 
expended, consisting of $1,100,000 for policy research and evaluation 
and $16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects, and $13,000,000 for 
the continued operation of the technology transfer program: Provided, 
That the $16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center 
shall be available for transfer to other Federal departments or 
agencies: Provided further, That the Office is authorized to accept, 
hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for the 
purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $183,977,000 
for drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for 
each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
$5,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area in Dallas/Fort Worth and East Texas and $1,000,000 
shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Area in New England, should the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy determine that these locations meet the designated 
criteria, and of which $3,000,000 shall be used to continue the 
recently created Central Florida High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, 
and of which $1,970,000 shall be used for the addition of North Dakota 
into the Midwest High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, and of which 
$7,000,000 shall be used for methamphetamine programs otherwise 
provided for in this legislation with not less than half of the 
$7,000,000 shall expand the Midwest High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Area, and of which $1,000,000 shall be used to expand the Cascade High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, and of which $1,500,000 shall be 
provided to the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, 
and of which $1,500,000 shall be used to expand the Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, and of which $1,500,000 
shall be used to continue the Rocky Mountain methamphetamine 
demonstration program, of which no less than $90,630,000 shall be 
transferred to State and local entities for drug control activities, 
which shall be obligated within 120 days of the date of enactment of 
this Act and up to $80,370,000 may be transferred to Federal agencies 
and departments at a rate to be determined by the Director: Provided, 
That funding shall be provided for existing High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Areas at no less than the fiscal year 1998 level.

                        special forfeiture fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 100-690, as amended, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $175,000,000 shall be to support a national media campaign to 
reduce and prevent drug use among young Americans: Provided further, 
That (1) ONDCP will require a pro-bono match commitment up-front as 
part of its media buy from each and every buyer of ad time and space, 
(2) ONDCP will dedicate 10 percent of the total amount appropriated 
specifically for the media campaign for the creation and distribution 
of grassroots materials aimed at children to be developed in 
consultation with community groups and experts, and to be distributed 
to communities and schools to support the national media campaign, (3) 
ONDCP, or any agent acting on its behalf, may not obligate any funds 
for the creative development of advertisements from for-profit 
organizations, not including out-of-pocket production costs and talent 
re-use payments, unless (A) the advertisements are intended to reach a 
minority, ethnic or other special audience that cannot be obtained on a 
pro bono basis within the time frames required by ONDCP's advertising 
and buying agencies, and (B) it receives prior approval from the Senate 
Committee on Appropriations, (4) ONDCP will secure corporate 
sponsorship equaling 40 percent of the appropriated amount in fiscal 
year 1999, the definition of which is a contribution that is not 
received as a result of leveraging funds to receive said sponsorship, 
corporate sponsorship equaling 60 percent of the appropriated amount in 
fiscal year 2000, corporate sponsorship equaling 80 percent of the 
appropriated amount in fiscal year 2001, corporate sponsorship equaling 
100 percent of the appropriated amount in fiscal year 2002, and will 
report quarterly on its efforts to meet this goal, (5) ONDCP is 
mandated to use appropriated funds solely to fund the anti-drug media 
campaign to include only the purchase of media time and space, talent 
re-use payments, out-of-pocket advertising production costs, testing 
and evaluation of advertising, evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
media campaign, the negotiated fees for the winning bidder on the 
request for proposal recently issued by ONDCP, partnership with 
community, civic, and professional groups, and government organizations 
related to the media campaign, entertainment industry collaborations to 
fashion anti-drug messages in movies, television programming, and 
popular music, interactive (Internet and new) media projects/
activities, public information (News Media Outreach), and corporate 
sponsorship/participation, (6) ONDCP shall not obligate funds provided 
for the national media campaign for fiscal year 1999 until ONDCP has 
submitted the evaluation and results of Phase I of the campaign to the 
Senate Committee on Appropriations, and may obligate up to 75 percent 
of these funds until ONDCP has submitted the evaluation and results of 
Phase II of the campaign to the Committees, (7) ONDCP is required to 
report to the Committee not only quarterly, but also monthly itemized 
reporting of all expenditures and obligations related to the media 
campaign, (8) funds shall be provided for obligation for the national 
media campaign after GAO has submitted and the Committee has approved 
the GAO report on the evaluation of Phase I of the media campaign and 
the GAO report on the media campaign financial management review: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $20,000,000 shall be to 
continue a program of matching grants to drug-free communities, as 
authorized in the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997.

          information technology systems and related expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For emergency expenses related to Year 2000 conversion of Federal 
information technology systems, and related expenses, $3,250,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the funds 
made available shall be transferred, as necessary, by the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget to all affected federal Departments 
and Agencies for expenses necessary to ensure the information 
technology that is used or acquired by the federal government meets the 
definition of Year 2000 compliant under Federal Acquisition Regulations 
(concerning accurate processing of date/time data, including 
calculating, comparing, and sequencing from, into, and between the 
twentieth and twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 2000 and 
leap year calculations) and to meet other criteria for Year 2000 
compliance as the head of each Department or Agency considers 
appropriate: Provided further, That none of the funds provided under 
this heading may be transferred to any Department or Agency until 
fifteen days after the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
has submitted to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem a 
proposed allocation and plan for that Department or Agency to achieve 
Year 2000 compliance for technology information systems: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided in this paragraph is in 
addition to any other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this or 
any other Act: Provided further, That funds provided under this heading 
shall be in addition to funds available in this or any other Act for 
Year 2000 compliance by any federal Department or Agency: Provided 
further, That the $3,250,000,000 shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the $3,250,000,000 is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28, $2,464,000.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $33,700,000 (increased by 
$2,800,000 to be used for enforcement activities), of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized 
to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of 
funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems and 
Related Expenses''.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $22,586,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to 
section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act 
of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), the $508,752,000 to be 
deposited into the Fund. The revenues and collections deposited into 
the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real property 
management and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased 
buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including space 
adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection 
with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual 
services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; 
repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, 
approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract, in the aggregate amount of $5,648,680,000, of which: (1) 
$538,652,000 shall remain available until expended for construction of 
additional projects at locations and at maximum construction 
improvement costs (including funds for sites and expenses and 
associated design and construction services) as follows:
            New construction:
                    Arkansas:
                            Little Rock, U.S. courthouse, $3,436,000
                    California:
                            San Diego, U.S. courthouse, $15,400,000
                            San Jose, U.S. courthouse, $10,800,000
                    Colorado:
                            Denver, U.S. courthouse, $83,959,000
                    District of Columbia:
                            Southeast Federal Center remediation, 
                        $10,000,000
                    Florida:
                            Jacksonville, U.S. courthouse, $86,010,000
                            Orlando, U.S. courthouse, $1,930,000
                    Georgia:
                            Savannah, U.S. courthouse, $46,462,000
                    Massachusetts:
                            Springfield, U.S. courthouse, $5,563,000
                    Michigan:
                            Sault Sainte Marie, border station, 
                        $572,000
                    Mississippi:
                            Biloxi-Gulfport U.S. courthouse, $7,543,000
                    Missouri:
                            Cape Girardeau U.S. courthouse, $2,196,000
                    Montana:
                            Babb, Piegan border station, $6,165,000
                    New York:
                            Brooklyn, U.S. courthouse, $152,626,000
                            New York U.S. Mission to the United 
                        Nations, $3,163,000
                    Oregon:
                            Eugene, U.S. courthouse, $7,190,000
                    Tennessee:
                            Greenville, U.S. courthouse, $28,229,000
                    Texas:
                            Laredo, U.S. courthouse, $28,105,000
                    West Virginia:
                            Wheeling, U.S. courthouse, $29,303,000
                    Nationwide:
                            Nonprospectus, $10,000,000:
Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law in order to rescind a 
General Services Administration property sale, the General Services 
Administration is authorized to re-acquire that parcel of land on Block 
111, East Denver, Denver, Colorado, which was sold at public auction by 
the Federal government to its present owner pursuant to paragraphs (6) 
and (7) of section 12 of Public Law 94-204 (43 U.S.C. 1611 note) at a 
price equivalent to the 1988 auction sale price plus the amount of 
cumulative consumer price index, pursuant to the methodology as used in 
Public Law 104-42, Sec. 107(a), from the closing date of the sale until 
the date of re-acquisition by the Federal government, offset by any net 
income received from the property by the present owner since the 1988 
sale: Provided further, That the funds provided in Public Law 102-393 
for Hilo, Hawaii shall be expended for the planning and design of the 
Mauna Kea Astronomy Educational Center, notwithstanding Public Law 103-
123, and of the funds provided not more than $475,000 is to be 
disbursed in this fiscal year: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $14,105,000 for the design of the Department of 
Transportation headquarters building shall not be available for 
obligation by the Administrator of General Services until the Secretary 
of the Department of Transportation approves airport landing rights for 
British Airways at Denver International Airport, Denver, Colorado and 
certifies that he has received a guarantee for year-round commercially 
viable landing and take off slots for the U.S. carrier authorized to 
serve the Charlotte-London (Gatwick) route: Provided further, That all 
funds for direct construction projects shall expire on September 30, 
2000, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except for funds for 
projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date; (2) $668,031,000 
shall remain available until expended, for repairs and alterations 
which includes associated design and construction services: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $323,800,000 shall not be 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, 
That funds in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by project as 
follows, except each project may be increased by an amount not to 
exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount:
    Repairs and alterations:
            California:
                    San Francisco, Appraisers Building, $29,778,000
            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center, Building 25, 
                $29,351,000
            District of Columbia:
                    Federal Office Building, 10B, $13,844,000
                    Interstate Commerce Commission, Connecting Wing 
                Complex, Customs Building, Phase 3/3, $83,959,000
                    Old Executive Office Building, $25,210,000
                    Department of State, Phase 1, $29,779,000
            New York:
                    Brookhaven, Internal Revenue Service, Service 
                Center, $20,019,000
                    New York, U.S. Courthouse, 40 Foley Square, 
                $4,782,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Philadelphia, Byrne-Green, Federal Building-U.S. 
                Courthouse, $11,212,000
            Virginia:
                    Reston, J.W. Powell Building, $9,151,000
            Nationwide:
                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $25,000,000
                    Energy Programs, $25,000,000
                    Design Program, $16,710,000
                    Basic Repairs and Alteration, $344,236,000:
Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate: Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs 
associated with implementing security improvements to buildings 
necessary to meet the minimum standards for security in accordance with 
current law and in compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the 
appropriate Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That 
funds made available in this Act or any previous Act for ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
originally made available, except each project may be increased by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent when advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate of a greater 
amount: Provided further, That the difference between the funds 
appropriated and expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, 
under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred to 
Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in 
prospectus projects: Provided further, That all funds for repairs and 
alterations prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 2000 and 
remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or 
in part prior to such date: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $100,000 shall be used to address the lighting issues at the 
Byrne-Green Federal Courthouse in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations, $1,600,000 shall be provided to complete the 
alterations required at the Milwaukee, Wisconsin Courthouse: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations, $1,100,000 may be used to provide a new fence 
surrounding the Suitland Federal Complex in Suitland, Maryland: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (3) $215,764,000 for installment acquisition payments 
including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain available 
until expended; (4) $2,583,261,000 for rental of space which shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $51,667,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999; and (5) $1,554,772,000 for building operations 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That of 
the amount provided $31,095,000 shall not be available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That funds available to the 
General Services Administration shall not be available for expenses of 
any construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for which 
a prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as 
amended, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses for the development of 
a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That for the purposes of this 
authorization, and hereafter, buildings constructed pursuant to the 
purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 
(40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to installment purchase 
contracts, and buildings under the control of another department or 
agency where alterations of such buildings are required in connection 
with the moving of such other department or agency from buildings then, 
or thereafter to be, under the control of the General Services 
Administration shall be considered to be federally owned buildings: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund 
may be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special 
services to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, 
guard booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
United States Secret Service to perform its protective functions 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be available from such 
revenues and collections: Provided further, That the remaining balances 
and associated assets and liabilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Activities account are hereby transferred to the Federal Buildings Fund 
to be effective October 1, 1998, and that all income earned after that 
effective date that would otherwise have been deposited to the 
Pennsylvania Avenue Activities account shall thereafter be deposited to 
the Federal Buildings Fund, to be available for the purposes authorized 
by Public Laws 104-134 and 104-208, notwithstanding subsection 
210(f)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, as 
amended: Provided further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 shall 
be made available for the 1999 Women's World Cup Soccer event: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 shall be made available 
for the 1999 World Alpine Ski Championships: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund 
during fiscal year 1999, excluding reimbursements under section 
210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of $5,648,680,000 shall remain in 
the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                         policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide and 
internal responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $106,494,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated from this Act or any other Act 
shall be available to convert the Old Post Office at 1100 Pennsylvania 
Avenue in Northwest Washington, D.C. from office use to any other use 
until a comprehensive plan, which shall include street-level retail 
use, has been approved by the Senate Committee on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That no funds from this Act or any other Act shall be 
available to acquire by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise the 
leasehold rights of the existing lease with private parties at the Old 
Post Office prior to the approval of the comprehensive plan by the 
Senate Committee on Appropriations.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,000,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $10,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,241,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                    General Services Administration

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1999 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2000 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2000 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay 
the rate per square foot assessment for space and services as 
determined by the General Services Administration in compliance with 
the Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance 
of pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to 
the extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', claims against the Government 
of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in 
other construction projects with prior notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 408. From the funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', in addition to amounts 
provided in budget activities above, up to $5,000,000 shall be 
available for the demolition, cleanup and conveyance of the property at 
block 35 and lot 2 of block 36 in Anchorage, Alaska: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of 
General Services shall, not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, demolish and remove all buildings, structures 
and other fixtures on the property at block 35 and lot 2 of block 36, 
Anchorage Original Townsite East Addition, Anchorage, Alaska, excluding 
any portion dedicated for use by the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention: Provided further, That the remediation of said parcel shall 
include the removal of all asbestos, lead and any other contamination, 
and restoration of the property, to the extent practicable, to an 
undeveloped condition: Provided further, That upon completion of the 
activities required for the demolition and removal of buildings, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of 
General Services shall convey to the municipality of Anchorage, without 
reimbursement, all right, title, and interest of the United States to 
the property.
    Sec. 409. The Administrator of General Services may convey, without 
consideration, to the City of Racine, Wisconsin all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of excess real 
property, including improvements thereon, that is located on 2310 
Center Street, commencing at the intersection of the North line of 24th 
Street and the center line of Center Street, being the point of the 
beginning; thence Northerly along the center line of Center Street, 426 
feet to the South line of 23rd Street extended East; thence Westerly 
along the South line of 23rd street extended East; 325 feet to the West 
line of Franklin Street extended South; thence southerly along the West 
line of Franklin Street extended South to a point on the North line of 
24th Street; thence Easterly along the North line of 24th Street to the 
point of beginning located in Racine, Wisconsin and which contains the 
U.S. Army Reserve Center.
    Sec. 410. Department of Transportation Headquarters. (a) In 
General.--The Administrator of General Services shall--
            (1) enter into an operating lease to acquire space for the 
        Department of Transportation headquarters; and
            (2) commence procurement of the lease not later than 
        November 1, 1998:
Provided, That the annual rent payment does not exceed $55,000,000.
    (b) Terms.--The authority granted in subsection (a) is effective 
only to the extent that the lease acquisition meets the guidelines for 
operating leases set forth in the joint statement of the managers for 
the conference report to the Balanced Budget Agreement of 1997, as 
determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 411. Security of Capitol Complex. There is appropriated to the 
Architect of the Capitol for costs associated with the security of the 
Capitol complex $14,105,000.
    Sec. 412. Land Conveyance, United States Naval Observatory/
Alternate Time Service Laboratory, Florida. (a) Conveyance 
Authorized.--If the Secretary of the Navy reports to the Administrator 
of General Services that the property described in subsection (b) is 
excess property of the Department of the Navy under section 202(b) of 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 
483(b)), and if the Administrator of General Services determines that 
such property is surplus property under that Act, then the 
Administrator may convey to the University of Miami, by negotiated sale 
or negotiated land exchange within one year after the date of the 
determination by the Administrator, all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to the property.
    (b) Covered Property.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is real property in Miami-Dade County, Florida, including improvements 
thereon, comprising the Federal facility known as the United States 
Naval Observatory/Alternate Time Service Laboratory, consisting of 
approximately 76 acres. The exact acreage and legal description of the 
property shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
    (c) Condition Regarding Use.--Any conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the condition that during the 10-year period 
beginning on the date of the conveyance, the University shall use the 
property, or provide for use of the property, only for--
            (1) a research, education, and training facility 
        complementary to longstanding national research missions, 
        subject to such incidental exceptions as may be approved by the 
        Administrator;
            (2) research-related purposes other than the use specified 
        in paragraph (1), under an agreement entered into by the 
        Administrator and the University; or
            (3) a combination of uses described in paragraph (1) and 
        paragraph (2), respectively.
    (d) Reversion.--If the Administrator determines at any time that 
the property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used in 
accordance with this section, all right, title, and interest in and to 
the property, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the 
United States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate 
entry thereon.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Administrator may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Administrator considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $25,805,000, together with not to 
exceed $2,430,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement 
appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection 
Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and records and related activities, as provided by law, and for 
expenses necessary for the review and declassification of documents, 
and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $221,030,000: Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $4,277,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That the 
Archivist of the United States is authorized to use any excess funds 
available from the amount borrowed for construction of the National 
Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide adequate storage 
for holdings: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

              archives facilities repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $11,325,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $2,000,000 is for an architectural 
and engineering study for the renovation of the Archives I facility, 
and of which $4,000,000 is for encasement of the Charters of Freedom, 
and of which $875,000 is for the requirements study and design of the 
National Archives Anchorage facility: Provided, That of the amount 
provided, $2,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

        National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$11,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amount provided, $5,500,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 
Public Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $8,492,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; $85,350,000; 
and in addition $91,236,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs: Provided, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not 
affect the authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by 
section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code: Provided further, 
That, except as may be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8902a(f)(1) and (i), no 
payment may be made from the Employees Health Benefits Fund to any 
physician, hospital, or other provider of health care services or 
supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies are provided to 
an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 through 1320a-7a), from participation in any program 
under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.): 
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of 
Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, accept donations of 
money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,145,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel Management's 
retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from the 
appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $8,720,000.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,765,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 1999, for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the 
Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has 
within 90 days after his release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still 
qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not been 
restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 509. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 1999 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 1999 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2000, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 510. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 511. Provisions for Staff Director and General Counsel of the 
Federal Election Commission. (a) Appointment and Term of Service.--
            (1) In general.--Section 306c(f) of the Federal Election 
        Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 437c(f)) is amended by striking 
        paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1)(A) The Commission shall have a staff director and a 
        general counsel who shall be appointed by an affirmative vote 
        of not less than 4 members of the Commission. Subject to 
        exception in subparagraph (D), the staff director and general 
        counsel shall, beginning January 1, 1999, serve for terms of 6 
        years and such terms may be renewed by an affirmative vote of 
        not less than 3 members of the Commission.
            ``(B) The staff director and general counsel may serve 
        after the expiration of his or her term until his or her 
        successor has been appointed.
            ``(C) An individual appointed to fill a vacancy occurring 
        other than by the expiration of a term of office shall be 
        appointed only for the unexpired term of the staff director or 
        general counsel he or she succeeds.
            ``(D) The term of any individual appointed prior to and 
        serving on the date of enactment of this Act as general counsel 
        shall be until January 1, 2008 and shall not be subject to 
        renewal under subparagraph (A) until such date.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction Regarding Authority of Acting Staff 
Director or General Counsel.--Section 306(f) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
437c(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prohibit 
        any individual serving as an acting staff director of the 
        Commission from performing any functions of the staff director 
        of the Commission or any individual serving as an acting 
        general counsel of the Commission from performing any functions 
        of the general counsel of the Commission.''.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department, 
or instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences, or other meetings in connection with the 
provision of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made 
pursuant to this section shall not exceed the rate specified in 
regulations prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is 
actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 612. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and 
such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of 
special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 
1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property 
owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may 
take the same actions as the Administrator of General Services may take 
under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto 
penal consequences under the authority and within the limits provided 
in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 614. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1999, by 
this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee 
described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 614 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 1998, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 1999, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable 
        wage schedule in accordance with such section 614; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1999, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1999 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1999 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in fiscal year 1998 under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1998, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 1998, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1998.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 615. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, except that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center 
is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by 
lease, contract, or other agreement for training which cannot be 
accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 617. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1999 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 618. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of 
        the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
        intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 619. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including 
employees of the Executive Office of the President, not directly 
responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and 
duties: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family 
of the President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State 
of a foreign country or their designees, persons providing assistance 
to the President for official purposes, or other individuals so 
designated by the President.
    Sec. 621. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or 
his designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or 
persons with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the 
Executive Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are 
themselves subject to a program of individual random drug testing.
    Sec. 622. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 623. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1999 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other 
nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, form, or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, 
or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities 
created by Executive Order No. 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United 
States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 
10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); 
the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et 
seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 
798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by said Executive order and listed statutes are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is 
to be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an 
intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an employee 
or officer of the United States Government, may contain provisions 
appropriate to the particular activity for which such document is to be 
used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the 
person will not disclose any classified information received in the 
course of such activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the 
United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it 
clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress or to an authorized 
official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are 
essential to reporting a substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 624. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 625. (a) In General.--Beginning in calendar year 2000, and 
every 2 calendar years thereafter, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall prepare and submit to Congress, with the 
budget submitted under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, an 
accounting statement and associated report containing--
            (1) an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits 
        (including quantifiable and nonquantifiable effects) of Federal 
        rules and paperwork, to the extent feasible--
                    (A) in the aggregate;
                    (B) by agency and agency program; and
                    (C) by major rule;
            (2) an analysis of impacts of Federal regulation on State, 
        local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and 
        economic growth; and
            (3) recommendations for reform.
    (b) Notice.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide public notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
statement and report under subsection (a) before the statement and 
report are submitted to Congress.
    (c) Guidelines.--To implement this section, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines to agencies to 
standardize--
            (1) measures of costs and benefits; and
            (2) the format of accounting statements.
    (d) Peer Review.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide for independent and external peer review of the 
guidelines and each accounting statement and associated report under 
this section. Such peer review shall not be subject to the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 626. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or that such disclosure has 
been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 627. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to establish 
scientific certification standards for explosives detection canines, 
and shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, for the certification of 
explosives detection canines employed by Federal agencies, or other 
agencies providing explosives detection services at airports in the 
United States.
    Sec. 628. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing 
or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the 
Federal Government without the approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 629. Notwithstanding section 611, interagency financing is 
authorized to carry out the purposes of the National Bioethics Advisory 
Commission.
    Sec. 630. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines 
that noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act. Any waiver granted by the Chief Information Officer shall 
be reported to the Office of Management and Budget, and copies shall be 
provided to Congress.
    Sec. 632. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or merchandise mined, 
produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, as 
determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1307).
    Sec. 633. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 634. The Director of the United States Marshals Service is 
directed to conduct a quarterly threat assessment on the Director of 
the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
    Sec. 635. Section 636(c) of Public Law 104-208 is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subparagraph (1) by inserting after ``United States 
        Code'' the following: ``any agency or court in the Judicial 
        Branch,'';
            (2) In subparagraph (2) by amending ``prosecution, or 
        detention'' to read: ``prosecution, detention, or 
        supervision''; and
            (3) In subparagraph (3) by inserting after ``title 5,'' the 
        following: ``and, with regard to the Judicial Branch, mean a 
        justice or judge of the United States as defined in 28 U.S.C. 
        451 in regular active service or retired from regular active 
        service, other judicial officers as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States, and supervisors and managers 
        within the Judicial Branch as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States,''.
    Sec. 636. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1999 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts 
to carry out the purposes of the National Science and Technology 
Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit 
multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities.
    Sec. 637. Section 626(b) of the Treasury, Postal Service, and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1997, as contained in section 
101(f) of Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-360), the Omnibus 
Appropriations Act, 1997, is amended to read as follows: ``(b) Until 
September 30, 1999, or until the end of the current FTS 2000 contracts, 
whichever is earlier, subsection (a) shall continue to apply to the use 
of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act.''.
    Sec. 638. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec.  639. For purposes of each provision of law amended by section 
704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5318 note), no 
adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
considered to have taken effect in fiscal year 1999 in the rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems.
    Sec. 640. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no part of 
any funds provided by this Act or any other Act beginning in fiscal 
year 1999 and thereafter shall be available for paying Sunday premium 
pay to any employee unless such employee actually performed work during 
the time corresponding to such premium pay.
    Sec. 641. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Treasury is authorized to, upon submission of proper 
documentation (as determined by the Secretary), reimburse importers of 
large capacity military magazine rifles as defined in the Treasury 
Department's April 6, 1998 ``Study on the Sporting Suitability of 
Modified Semiautomatic Assault Rifles'', for which authority had been 
granted to import such firearms into the United States on or before 
November 14, 1997, and released under bond to the importer by the U.S. 
Customs Service on or before February 10, 1998: Provided, That the 
importer abandons title to the firearms to the United States: Provided 
further, That reimbursements are submitted to the Secretary for his 
approval within 120 days of enactment of this provision. In no event 
shall reimbursements under this provision exceed the importers cost for 
the weapons, plus any shipping, transportation, duty, and storage costs 
related to the importation of such weapons. Money made available for 
expenditure under 31 U.S.C. section 1304(a) in an amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for reimbursements under this provision: 
Provided, That accepting the compensation provided under this provision 
is final and conclusive and constitutes a complete release of any and 
all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action whatsoever against 
the United States, its agencies, officers, or employees arising from 
the denial by the Department of the Treasury of the entry of such 
firearms into the United States. Such compensation is not otherwise 
required by law and is not intended to create or recognize any legally 
enforceable right to any person.
    Sec. 642. The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised, 
within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, to include the 
use of forced or indentured child labor in mining, production, or 
manufacturing as a cause on the lists of causes for debarment and 
suspension from contracting with executive agencies that are set forth 
in the regulation.
    Sec. 643. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for the 
statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 1999 under 
section 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an 
increase of 3.6 percent.
    (b) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 644. Federal Firefighters Overtime Pay Reform Act of 1998. (a) 
In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in section 5542 by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(f) In applying subsection (a) of this section with respect to a 
firefighter who is subject to section 5545b--
            ``(1) such subsection shall be deemed to apply to hours of 
        work officially ordered or approved in excess of 106 hours in a 
        biweekly pay period, or, if the agency establishes a weekly 
        basis for overtime pay computation, in excess of 53 hours in an 
        administrative workweek; and
            ``(2) the overtime hourly rate of pay is an amount equal to 
        one and one-half times the hourly rate of basic pay under 
        section 5545b (b)(1)(A) or (c)(1)(B), as applicable, and such 
        overtime hourly rate of pay may not be less than such hourly 
        rate of basic pay in applying the limitation on the overtime 
        rate provided in paragraph (2) of such subsection (a).''; and
            (2) by inserting after section 5545a the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 5545b. Pay for firefighters
    ``(a) This section applies to an employee whose position is 
classified in the firefighter occupation in conformance with the GS-081 
standard published by the Office of Personnel Management, and whose 
normal work schedule, as in effect throughout the year, consists of 
regular tours of duty which average at least 106 hours per biweekly pay 
period.
    ``(b)(1) If the regular tour of duty of a firefighter subject to 
this section generally consists of 24-hour shifts, rather than a basic 
40-hour workweek (as determined under regulations prescribed by the 
Office of Personnel Management), section 5504(b) shall be applied as 
follows in computing pay--
            ``(A) paragraph (1) of such section shall be deemed to 
        require that the annual rate be divided by 2756 to derive the 
        hourly rate; and
            ``(B) the computation of such firefighter's daily, weekly, 
        or biweekly rate shall be based on the hourly rate under 
        subparagraph (A);
    ``(2) For the purpose of sections 5595(c), 5941, 8331(3), and 
8704(c), and for such other purposes as may be expressly provided for 
by law or as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation 
prescribe, the basic pay of a firefighter subject to this subsection 
shall include an amount equal to the firefighter's basic hourly rate 
(as computed under paragraph (1)(A)) for all hours in such 
firefighter's regular tour of duty (including overtime hours).
    ``(c)(1) If the regular tour of duty of a firefighter subject to 
this section includes a basic 40-hour workweek (as determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management), section 
5504(b) shall be applied as follows in computing pay--
            ``(A) the provisions of such section shall apply to the 
        hours within the basic 40-hour workweek;
            ``(B) for hours outside the basic 40-hour workweek, such 
        section shall be deemed to require that the hourly rate be 
        derived by dividing the annual rate by 2756; and
            ``(C) the computation of such firefighter's daily, weekly, 
        or biweekly rate shall be based on subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
        as each applies to the hours involved.
    ``(2) For purposes of sections 5595(c), 5941, 8331(3), and 8704(c), 
and for such other purposes as may be expressly provided for by law or 
as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation prescribe, the 
basic pay of a firefighter subject to this subsection shall include--
            ``(A) an amount computed under paragraph (1)(A) for the 
        hours within the basic 40-hour workweek; and
            ``(B) an amount equal to the firefighter's basic hourly 
        rate (as computed under paragraph (1)(B)) for all hours outside 
        the basic 40-hour workweek that are within such firefighter's 
        regular tour of duty (including overtime hours).
    ``(d)(1) A firefighter who is subject to this section shall receive 
overtime pay in accordance with section 5542, but shall not receive 
premium pay provided by other provisions of this subchapter.
    ``(2) For the purpose of applying section 7(k) of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to a firefighter who is subject to this section, 
no violation referred to in such section 7(k) shall be deemed to have 
occurred if the requirements of section 5542(a) are met, applying 
section 5542(a) as provided in subsection (f) of that section. The 
overtime hourly rate of pay for such firefighter shall in all cases be 
an amount equal to one and one-half times the firefighter's hourly rate 
of basic pay under subsection (b)(1)(A) or (c)(1)(B) of this section, 
as applicable.
    ``(3) The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations, 
with respect to firefighters subject to this section, that would permit 
an agency to reduce or eliminate the variation in the amount of 
firefighters' biweekly pay caused by work scheduling cycles that result 
in varying hours in the regular tours of duty from pay period to pay 
period. Under such regulations, the pay that a firefighter would 
otherwise receive for regular tours of duty over the work scheduling 
cycle shall, to the extent practicable, remain unaffected.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 5545a the following:

``5545b. Pay for firefighters.''.
    (c) Training.--Section 4109 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), a firefighter who is 
subject to section 5545b of this title shall be paid basic pay and 
overtime pay for the firefighter's regular tour of duty while attending 
agency sanctioned training.''.
    (d) Inclusion in Basic Pay for Federal Retirement.--Section 8331(3) 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after subparagraph (D);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (G);
            (3) by inserting the following:
                    ``(E) with respect to a criminal investigator, 
                availability pay under section 5545a of this title;
                    ``(F) pay as provided in section 5545b (b)(2) and 
                (c)(2); and ''; and
            (4) by striking ``subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E)'' 
        and inserting ``subparagraphs (B) through (G)''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the first day of the first applicable pay period which begins 
on or after the later of October 1, 1998, or the 180th day following 
the date of enactment of this section.
    (f) Regulations.--Under regulations prescribed by the Office of 
Personnel Management, a firefighter subject to section 5545b of title 
5, United States Code, as added by this section, whose regular tours of 
duty average 60 hours or less per workweek and do not include a basic 
40-hour workweek, shall, upon implementation of this section, be 
granted an increase in basic pay equal to 2 step-increases of the 
applicable General Schedule grade, and such increase shall not be an 
equivalent increase in pay. If such increase results in a change to a 
longer waiting period for the firefighter's next step increase, the 
firefighter shall be credited with an additional year of service for 
the purpose of such waiting period. If such increase results in a rate 
of basic pay which is above the maximum rate of the applicable grade, 
such resulting pay rate shall be treated as a retained rate of basic 
pay in accordance with section 5363 of title 5, United States Code.
    (g) No Reduction in Regular Pay.--Under regulations prescribed by 
the Office of Personnel Management, the regular pay (over the 
established work scheduling cycle) of a firefighter subject to section 
5545b of title 5, United States Code, as added by this section, shall 
not be reduced as a result of the implementation of this section.
    Sec. 645. International Mail Reporting Requirement. (a) In 
General.--Chapter 36 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
adding after section 3662 the following:
``Sec. 3663. Annual report on international services
    ``(a) Not later than July 1 of each year, the Postal Rate 
Commission shall transmit to each House of Congress a comprehensive 
report of the costs, revenues, and volumes accrued by the Postal 
Service in connection with mail matter conveyed between the United 
States and other countries for the previous fiscal year.
    ``(b) Not later than March 15 of each year, the Postal Service 
shall provide to the Postal Rate Commission such data as the Commission 
may require to prepare the report required under subsection (a) of this 
section. Data shall be provided in sufficient detail to enable the 
Commission to analyze the costs, revenues, and volumes for each 
international mail product or service, under the methods determined 
appropriate by the Commission for the analysis of rates for domestic 
mail.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 63 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding after 
the item relating to section 3662 the following:

``3663. Annual report on international services.''.
    Sec. 646. Child Care Services for Federal Employees. (a) In 
General.--An Executive agency which provides or proposes to provide 
child care services for Federal employees may use agency funds to 
provide child care, in a Federal or leased facility, or through 
contract, for civilian employees of such agency.
    (b) Affordability.--Amounts provided under subsection (a) with 
respect to any facility or contractor described in such subsection 
shall be applied to improve the affordability of child care for lower 
income Federal employees using or seeking to use the child care 
services offered by such facility or contractor.
    (c) Regulations.--The Office of Personnel Management and the 
General Services Administration shall, within 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, issue regulations necessary to carry out this 
section.
    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 105 of title 5, 
United States Code, but does not include the General Accounting Office.
    Sec. 647. Extension of Sunset Provision. Section 2(f)(2) of the 
Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. 922 note) is amended by 
striking ``(2)'' and all that follows through ``10 years'' and 
inserting the following:
            ``(2) Sunset.--Effective 15 years''.
    Sec. 648. Sense of Congress that a Postage Stamp should be Issued 
Honoring Oskar Schindler. (a) Findings.--
            (1) Since during the Nazi occupation of Poland, Oskar 
        Schindler personally risked his life and that of his wife to 
        provide food and medical care and saved the lives of over 1,000 
        Jews from death, many of whom later made their homes in the 
        United States.
            (2) Since Oskar Schindler also rescued about 100 Jewish men 
        and women from the Golezow concentration camp, who lay trapped 
        and partly frozen in 2 sealed train cars stranded near 
        Brunnlitz.
            (3) Since millions of Americans have been made aware of the 
        story of Schindler's bravery.
            (4) Since on April 28, 1962, Oskar Schindler was named a 
        ``Righteous Gentile'' by Yad Vashem.
            (5) Since Oskar Schindler is a true hero and humanitarian 
        deserving of honor by the United States Government.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
Postal Service should issue a stamp honoring the life of Oskar 
Schindler.
    Sec. 649. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefit program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 650. The provision of section 649 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 651. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
expended by the Office of Personnel Management to enter into or renew 
any contract under section 8902 of title 5, United States Code, for a 
health benefits plan--
            (1) which provides coverage for prescription drugs, unless 
        such plan also provides equivalent coverage for prescription 
        contraceptive drugs or devices approved by the Food and Drug 
        Administration, or generic equivalents approved as 
        substitutable by the Food and Drug Administration; or
            (2) which provides benefits for outpatient services 
        provided by a health care professional, unless such plan also 
        provides equivalent benefits for outpatient contraceptive 
        services.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with any of 
the following religious plans:
            (1) SelectCare.
            (2) PersonalCare's HMO.
            (3) Care Choices.
            (4) OSF Health Plans, Inc.
            (5) Yellowstone Community Health Plan.
            (6) Any other existing or future religious based plan whose 
        religious tenets are in conflict with the requirements in this 
        Act.
    (c) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``contraceptive drug or device'' means a drug 
        or device intended for preventing pregnancy; and
            (2) the term ``outpatient contraceptive services'' means 
        consultations, examinations, procedures, and medical services, 
        provided on an outpatient basis and related to the use of 
        contraceptive methods (including natural family planning) to 
        prevent pregnancy.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion related services.
    Sec. 652. Importation of Certain Grains. (a) Findings.--The 
Congress finds that--
            (1) importation of grains into the United States at less 
        than the cost to produce those grains is causing injury to the 
        United States producers of those grains;
            (2) importation of grains into the United States at less 
        than the fair value of those grains is causing injury to the 
        United States producers of those grains;
            (3) the Canadian Government and the Canadian Wheat Board 
        have refused to disclose pricing and cost information necessary 
        to determine whether grains are being exported to the United 
        States at prices in violation of United States trade laws or 
        agreements.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) The Customs Service, consulting with the United States 
        Trade Representative and the Department of Commerce, shall 
        conduct a study of the efficiency and effectiveness of 
        requiring that all spring wheat, durum or barley imported into 
        the United States be imported into the United States through a 
        single port of entry.
            (2) The Customs Service, consulting with the United States 
        Trade Representative and the Department of Commerce, shall 
        determine whether such spring wheat, durum and barley could be 
        imported into the United States through a single port of entry 
        until either the Canadian Wheat Board or the Canadian 
        Government discloses all information necessary to determine the 
        cost and price for all such grains being exported to the United 
        States from Canada and whether such cost or price violates any 
        law of the United States, or violates, is inconsistent with, or 
        denies benefits to the United States under, any trade 
        agreement.
            (3) The Customs Service shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations and Finance not later than ninety days after the 
        effective date of this Act on the results of the study required 
        by paragraphs (1) and (2).
    Sec. 653. Assessment of Federal Regulations and Policies on 
Families. (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to--
            (1) require agencies to assess the impact of proposed 
        agency actions on family well-being; and
            (2) improve the management of executive branch agencies.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``Executive agency'' by section 105 of title 5, United States 
        Code, except such term does not include the General Accounting 
        Office; and
            (2) the term ``family'' means--
                    (A) a group of individuals related by blood, 
                marriage, adoption, or other legal custody who live 
                together as a single household; and
                    (B) any individual who is not a member of such 
                group, but who is related by blood, marriage, or 
                adoption to a member of such group, and over half of 
                whose support in a calendar year is received from such 
                group.
    (c) Family Policymaking Assessment.--Before implementing policies 
and regulations that may affect family well-being, each agency shall 
assess such actions with respect to whether--
            (1) the action strengthens or erodes the stability or 
        safety of the family and, particularly, the marital commitment;
            (2) the action strengthens or erodes the authority and 
        rights of parents in the education, nurture, and supervision of 
        their children;
            (3) the action helps the family perform its functions, or 
        substitutes governmental activity for the function;
            (4) the action increases or decreases disposable income or 
        poverty of families and children;
            (5) the proposed benefits of the action justify the 
        financial impact on the family;
            (6) the action may be carried out by State or local 
        government or by the family; and
            (7) the action establishes an implicit or explicit policy 
        concerning the relationship between the behavior and personal 
        responsibility of youth, and the norms of society.
    (d) Governmentwide Family Policy Coordination and Review.--
            (1) Certification and rationale.--With respect to each 
        proposed policy or regulation that may affect family well-
        being, the head of each agency shall--
                    (A) submit a written certification to the Director 
                of the Office of Management and Budget and to Congress 
                that such policy or regulation has been assessed in 
                accordance with this section; and
                    (B) provide an adequate rationale for 
                implementation of each policy or regulation that may 
                negatively affect family well-being.
            (2) Office of management and budget.--The Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget shall--
                    (A) ensure that policies and regulations proposed 
                by agencies are implemented consistent with this 
                section; and
                    (B) compile, index, and submit annually to the 
                Congress the written certifications received pursuant 
                to paragraph (1)(A).
            (3) Office of policy development.--The Office of Policy 
        Development shall--
                    (A) assess proposed policies and regulations in 
                accordance with this section;
                    (B) provide evaluations of policies and regulations 
                that may affect family well-being to the Director of 
                the Office of Management and Budget; and
                    (C) advise the President on policy and regulatory 
                actions that may be taken to strengthen the 
                institutions of marriage and family in the United 
                States.
    (e) Assessments Upon Request by Members of Congress.--Upon request 
by a Member of Congress relating to a proposed policy or regulation, an 
agency shall conduct an assessment in accordance with subsection (c), 
and shall provide a certification and rationale in accordance with 
subsection (d).
    (f) Judicial Review.--This section is not intended to create any 
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a 
party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any 
person.
    Sec. 654. Family Well-Being and Children's Impact Statement. 
Consideration of any bill or joint resolution of a public character 
reported by any committee of the Senate or of the House of 
Representatives that is accompanied by a committee report that does not 
contain a detailed analysis of the probable impact of the bill or 
resolution on family well-being and on children, including whether such 
bill or joint resolution will increase the number of children who are 
hungry or homeless, shall not be in order.
    Sec. 655. Additional Purchases of Oil for the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve. In response to historically low prices for oil produced 
domestically and to build national capacity for response to future 
energy supply emergencies, the Secretary of Energy shall purchase and 
transport an additional $420,000,000 of oil for the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve upon a determination by the President that current market 
conditions are imperiling domestic oil production from marginal and 
small producers: Provided, That an official budget request for the 
purchase of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and including a 
designation of the entire request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the entire amount in the preceding proviso is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    Sec. 656. Postage Stamp Honoring the One Hundred Fiftieth 
Anniversary of Irish Immigration to the United States. (a) Findings.--
The Senate finds that--
            (1) more than 44,000,000 Americans trace their ancestry to 
        Ireland;
            (2) of these 44,000,000, many are descended from the nearly 
        2,000,000 Irish immigrants who were forced to flee Ireland 
        during the ``Great Hunger'' of 1845-1850;
            (3) those immigrants dedicated themselves to the 
        development of our Nation and contributed immensely to it by 
        helping to build our railroads, our canals, our cities and our 
        schools;
            (4) 1998 marks the one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the 
        mass immigration of Irish immigrants to America during the 
        Irish Potato Famine;
            (5) commemorating this tragic but defining episode in the 
        history of American immigration would be deserving of honor by 
        the United States Government.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States Postal Service should issue a stamp honoring the one hundred 
fiftieth anniversary of Irish immigration to the United States during 
the Irish Famine of 1845-1850.
    Sec. 657. Post Office Relocations, Closings, and Consolidations. 
(a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Community and 
Postal Participation Act of 1998''.
    (b) Guidelines for Relocation, Closing, or Consolidation of Post 
Offices.--Section 404 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b)(1) Before making a determination under subsection (a)(3) as 
to the necessity for the relocation, closing, or consolidation of any 
post office, the Postal Service shall provide adequate notice to 
persons served by that post office of the intention of the Postal 
Service to relocate, close, or consolidate that post office not later 
than 60 days before the proposed date of that relocation, closing, or 
consolidation.
    ``(2)(A) The notification under paragraph (1) shall be in writing, 
hand delivered or delivered by mail to persons served by that post 
office, and published in 1 or more newspapers of general circulation 
within the zip codes served by that post office.
    ``(B) The notification under paragraph (1) shall include--
            ``(i) an identification of the relocation, closing, or 
        consolidation of the post office involved;
            ``(ii) a summary of the reasons for the relocation, 
        closing, or consolidation; and
            ``(iii) the proposed date for the relocation, closing, or 
        consolidation.
    ``(3) Any person served by the post office that is the subject of a 
notification under paragraph (1) may offer an alternative relocation, 
consolidation, or closing proposal during the 60-day period beginning 
on the date on which the notice is provided under paragraph (1).
    ``(4)(A) At the end of the period specified in paragraph (3), the 
Postal Service shall make a determination under subsection (a)(3). 
Before making a final determination, the Postal Service shall conduct a 
hearing at the request of the community served. Persons served by the 
post office that is the subject of a notice under paragraph (1) may 
present oral or written testimony with respect to the relocation, 
closing, or consolidation of the post office.
    ``(B) In making a determination as to whether or not to relocate, 
close, or consolidate a post office, the Postal Service shall 
consider--
            ``(i) the extent to which the post office is part of a core 
        downtown business area;
            ``(ii) any potential effect of the relocation, closing, or 
        consolidation on the community served by the post office;
            ``(iii) whether the community served by the post office 
        opposes a relocation, closing, or consolidation;
            ``(iv) any potential effect of the relocation, closing, or 
        consolidation on employees of the Postal Service employed at 
        the post office;
            ``(v) whether the relocation, closing, or consolidation of 
        the post office is consistent with the policy of the Government 
        under section 101(b) that requires the Postal Service to 
        provide a maximum degree of effective and regular postal 
        services to rural areas, communities, and small towns in which 
        post offices are not self-sustaining;
            ``(vi) the quantified long-term economic saving to the 
        Postal Service resulting from the relocation, closing, or 
        consolidation;
            ``(vii) whether postal officials engaged in negotiations 
        with persons served by the post office concerning the proposed 
        relocation, closing, or consolidation;
            ``(viii) whether management of the post office contributed 
        to a desire to relocate;
            ``(ix)(I) the adequacy of the existing post office; and
            ``(II) whether all reasonable alternatives to relocation, 
        closing, or consolidation have been explored; and
            ``(x) any other factor that the Postal Service determines 
        to be necessary for making a determination whether to relocate, 
        close, or consolidate that post office.
    ``(5)(A) Any determination of the Postal Service to relocate, 
close, or consolidate a post office shall be in writing and shall 
include the findings of the Postal Service with respect to the 
considerations required to be made under paragraph (4).
    ``(B) The Postal Service shall respond to all of the alternative 
proposals described in paragraph (3) in a consolidated report that 
includes--
            ``(i) the determination and findings under subparagraph 
        (A); and
            ``(ii) each alternative proposal and a response by the 
        Postal Service.
    ``(C) The Postal Service shall make available to the public a copy 
of the report prepared under subparagraph (B) at the post office that 
is the subject of the report.
    ``(6)(A) The Postal Service shall take no action to relocate, 
close, or consolidate a post office until the applicable date described 
in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) The applicable date specified in this subparagraph is--
            ``(i) if no appeal is made under paragraph (7), the end of 
        the 60-day period specified in that paragraph; or
            ``(ii) if an appeal is made under paragraph (7), the date 
        on which a determination is made by the Commission under 
        paragraph (7)(A), but not later than 120 days after the date on 
        which the appeal is made.
    ``(7)(A) A determination of the Postal Service to relocate, close, 
or consolidate any post office may be appealed by any person served by 
that post office to the Postal Rate Commission during the 60-day period 
beginning on the date on which the report is made available under 
paragraph (5). The Commission shall review the determination on the 
basis of the record before the Postal Service in the making of the 
determination. The Commission shall make a determination based on that 
review not later than 120 days after appeal is made under this 
paragraph.
    ``(B) The Commission shall set aside any determination, findings, 
and conclusions of the Postal Service that the Commission finds to be--
            ``(i) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or 
        otherwise not in accordance with the law;
            ``(ii) without observance of procedure required by law; or
            ``(iii) unsupported by substantial evidence on the record.
    ``(C) The Commission may affirm the determination of the Postal 
Service that is the subject of an appeal under subparagraph (A) or 
order that the entire matter that is the subject of that appeal be 
returned for further consideration, but the Commission may not modify 
the determination of the Postal Service. The Commission may suspend the 
effectiveness of the determination of the Postal Service until the 
final disposition of the appeal.
    ``(D) The provisions of sections 556 and 557, and chapter 7 of 
title 5 shall not apply to any review carried out by the Commission 
under this paragraph.
    ``(E) A determination made by the Commission shall not be subject 
to judicial review.
    ``(8) In any case in which a community has in effect procedures to 
address the relocation, closing, or consolidation of buildings in the 
community, and the public participation requirements of those 
procedures are more stringent than those provided in this subsection, 
the Postal Service shall apply those procedures to the relocation, 
consolidation, or closing of a post office in that community in lieu of 
applying the procedures established in this subsection.
    ``(9) In making a determination to relocate, close, or consolidate 
any post office, the Postal Service shall comply with any applicable 
zoning, planning, or land use laws (including building codes and other 
related laws of State or local public entities, including any zoning 
authority with jurisdiction over the area in which the post office is 
located).
    ``(10) The relocation, closing, or consolidation of any post office 
under this subsection shall be conducted in accordance with section 110 
of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h-2).''.
    (c) Policy Statement.--Section 101(g) of title 39, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``In addition to 
taking into consideration the matters referred to in the preceding 
sentence, with respect to the creation of any new postal facility, the 
Postal Service shall consider the potential effects of that facility on 
the community to be served by that facility and the service provided by 
any facility in operation at the time that a determination is made 
whether to plan or build that facility.''.
    Sec. 658. Designation of Eugene J. McCarthy Post Office Building. 
(a) In General.--The building of the United States Postal Service 
located at 180 East Kellogg Boulevard in Saint Paul, Minnesota, shall 
be known and designated as the ``Eugene J. McCarthy Post Office 
Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Eugene J. 
McCarthy Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 659. Within the amounts appropriated in this Act, up to 
$20,300,000 may be transferred to the Acquisition, Construction, 
Improvements, and Related Expenses account of the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center for new construction.
    Sec. 660. (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``crime of violence'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 16 of title 18, United States Code; and
            (2) the term ``law enforcement officer'' means any employee 
        described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 8401(17) 
        of title 5, United States Code; and any special agent in the 
        Diplomatic Security Service of the Department of State.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, or 
any other provision of law relating to tort liability, a law 
enforcement officer shall be construed to be acting within the scope of 
his or her office or employment, if the officer takes reasonable 
action, including the use of force, to--
            (1) protect an individual in the presence of the officer 
        from a crime of violence;
            (2) provide immediate assistance to an individual who has 
        suffered or who is threatened with bodily harm; or
            (3) prevent the escape of any individual who the officer 
        reasonably believes to have committed in the presence of the 
        officer a crime of violence.

              TITLE VII--CHILD CARE IN FEDERAL FACILITIES

    Sec. 701. Short Title. This title may be cited as ``Quality Child 
Care for Federal Employees''.
    Sec. 702. Providing Quality Child Care in Federal Facilities. (a) 
Definition.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of General Services.
            (2) Child care accreditation entity.--The term ``child care 
        accreditation entity'' means a nonprofit private organization 
        or public agency that--
                    (A) is recognized by a State agency or by a 
                national organization that serves as a peer review 
                panel on the standards and procedures of public and 
                private child care or school accrediting bodies; and
                    (B) accredits a facility to provide child care on 
                the basis of--
                            (i) an accreditation or credentialing 
                        instrument based on peer-validated research;
                            (ii) compliance with applicable State or 
                        local licensing requirements, as appropriate, 
                        for the facility;
                            (iii) outside monitoring of the facility; 
                        and
                            (iv) criteria that provide assurances of--
                                    (I) use of developmentally 
                                appropriate health and safety standards 
                                at the facility;
                                    (II) use of developmentally 
                                appropriate educational activities, as 
                                an integral part of the child care 
                                program carried out at the facility; 
                                and
                                    (III) use of ongoing staff 
                                development or training activities for 
                                the staff of the facility, including 
                                related skills-based testing.
            (3) Entity sponsoring a child care facility.--The term 
        ``entity sponsoring a child care facility'' means a Federal 
        agency that operates, or an entity that enters into a contract 
        or licensing agreement with a Federal agency to operate, a 
        child care facility primarily for the use of Federal employees.
            (4) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code, except that the term--
                    (A) does not include the Department of Defense and 
                the Coast Guard; and
                    (B) includes the General Services Administration, 
                with respect to the administration of a facility 
                described in paragraph (5)(B).
            (5) Executive facility.--The term ``executive facility''--
                    (A) means a facility that is owned or leased by an 
                Executive agency; and
                    (B) includes a facility that is owned or leased by 
                the General Services Administration on behalf of a 
                judicial office.
            (6) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means an 
        Executive agency or a legislative office.
            (7) Judicial office.--The term ``judicial office'' means an 
        entity of the judicial branch of the Federal Government.
            (8) Legislative facility.--The term ``legislative 
        facility'' means a facility that is owned or leased by a 
        legislative office.
            (9) Legislative office.--The term ``legislative office'' 
        means an entity of the legislative branch of the Federal 
        Government.
            (10) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 658P of the Child Care and Development Block 
        Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9858n).
    (b) Executive Branch Standards and Compliance.--
            (1) State and local licensing requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--Any entity sponsoring a child care 
                facility in an executive facility shall--
                            (i) comply with child care standards 
                        described in paragraph (2) that, at a minimum, 
                        include applicable State or local licensing 
                        requirements, as appropriate, related to the 
                        provision of child care in the State or 
                        locality involved; or
                            (ii) obtain the applicable State or local 
                        licenses, as appropriate, for the facility.
                    (B) Compliance.--Not later than 6 months after the 
                date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) the entity shall comply, or make 
                        substantial progress (as determined by the 
                        Administrator) toward complying, with 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) any contract or licensing agreement 
                        used by an Executive agency for the provision 
                        of child care services in such child care 
                        facility shall include a condition that the 
                        child care be provided by an entity that 
                        complies with the standards described in 
                        subparagraph (A)(i) or obtains the licenses 
                        described in subparagraph (A)(ii).
            (2) Health, safety, and facility standards.--The 
        Administrator shall by regulation establish standards relating 
        to health, safety, facilities, facility design, and other 
        aspects of child care that the Administrator determines to be 
        appropriate for child care in executive facilities, and require 
        child care services in executive facilities to comply with the 
        standards. Such standards shall include requirements that child 
        care facilities be inspected for, and be free of, lead hazards.
            (3) Accreditation standards.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator shall issue 
                regulations requiring, to the maximum extent possible, 
                any entity sponsoring an eligible child care facility 
                (as defined by the Administrator) in an executive 
                facility to comply with standards of a child care 
                accreditation entity.
                    (B) Compliance.--The regulations shall require 
                that, not later than 5 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act--
                            (i) the entity shall comply, or make 
                        substantial progress (as determined by the 
                        Administrator) toward complying, with the 
                        standards; and
                            (ii) any contract or licensing agreement 
                        used by an Executive agency for the provision 
                        of child care services in such child care 
                        facility shall include a condition that the 
                        child care be provided by an entity that 
                        complies with the standards.
            (4) Evaluation and compliance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator shall evaluate 
                the compliance, with the requirements of paragraph (1) 
                and the regulations issued pursuant to paragraphs (2) 
                and (3), as appropriate, of child care facilities, and 
                entities sponsoring child care facilities, in executive 
                facilities. The Administrator may conduct the 
                evaluation of such a child care facility or entity 
                directly, or through an agreement with another Federal 
                agency or private entity, other than the Federal agency 
                for which the child care facility is providing 
                services. If the Administrator determines, on the basis 
                of such an evaluation, that the child care facility or 
                entity is not in compliance with the requirements, the 
                Administrator shall notify the Executive agency.
                    (B) Effect of noncompliance.--On receipt of the 
                notification of noncompliance issued by the 
                Administrator, the head of the Executive agency shall--
                            (i) if the entity operating the child care 
                        facility is the agency--
                                    (I) not later than 2 business days 
                                after the date of receipt of the 
                                notification, correct any deficiencies 
                                that are determined by the 
                                Administrator to be life threatening or 
                                to present a risk of serious bodily 
                                harm;
                                    (II) develop and provide to the 
                                Administrator a plan to correct any 
                                other deficiencies in the operation of 
                                the facility and bring the facility and 
                                entity into compliance with the 
                                requirements not later than 4 months 
                                after the date of receipt of the 
                                notification;
                                    (III) provide the parents of the 
                                children receiving child care services 
                                at the child care facility and 
                                employees of the facility with a 
                                notification detailing the deficiencies 
                                described in subclauses (I) and (II) 
                                and actions that will be taken to 
                                correct the deficiencies, and post a 
                                copy of the notification in a 
                                conspicuous place in the facility for 5 
                                working days or until the deficiencies 
                                are corrected, whichever is later;
                                    (IV) bring the child care facility 
                                and entity into compliance with the 
                                requirements and certify to the 
                                Administrator that the facility and 
                                entity are in compliance, based on an 
                                onsite evaluation of the facility 
                                conducted by an independent entity with 
                                expertise in child care health and 
                                safety; and
                                    (V) in the event that deficiencies 
                                determined by the Administrator to be 
                                life threatening or to present a risk 
                                of serious bodily harm cannot be 
                                corrected within 2 business days after 
                                the date of receipt of the 
                                notification, close the child care 
                                facility, or the affected portion of 
                                the facility, until such deficiencies 
                                are corrected and notify the 
                                Administrator of such closure; and
                            (ii) if the entity operating the child care 
                        facility is a contractor or licensee of the 
                        Executive agency--
                                    (I) require the contractor or 
                                licensee, not later than 2 business 
                                days after the date of receipt of the 
                                notification, to correct any 
                                deficiencies that are determined by the 
                                Administrator to be life threatening or 
                                to present a risk of serious bodily 
                                harm;
                                    (II) require the contractor or 
                                licensee to develop and provide to the 
                                head of the agency a plan to correct 
                                any other deficiencies in the operation 
                                of the child care facility and bring 
                                the facility and entity into compliance 
                                with the requirements not later than 4 
                                months after the date of receipt of the 
                                notification;
                                    (III) require the contractor or 
                                licensee to provide the parents of the 
                                children receiving child care services 
                                at the child care facility and 
                                employees of the facility with a 
                                notification detailing the deficiencies 
                                described in subclauses (I) and (II) 
                                and actions that will be taken to 
                                correct the deficiencies, and to post a 
                                copy of the notification in a 
                                conspicuous place in the facility for 5 
                                working days or until the deficiencies 
                                are corrected, whichever is later;
                                    (IV) require the contractor or 
                                licensee to bring the child care 
                                facility and entity into compliance 
                                with the requirements and certify to 
                                the head of the agency that the 
                                facility and entity are in compliance, 
                                based on an onsite evaluation of the 
                                facility conducted by an independent 
                                entity with expertise in child care 
                                health and safety; and
                                    (V) in the event that deficiencies 
                                determined by the Administrator to be 
                                life threatening or to present a risk 
                                of serious bodily harm cannot be 
                                corrected within 2 business days after 
                                the date of receipt of the 
                                notification, close the child care 
                                facility, or the affected portion of 
                                the facility, until such deficiencies 
                                are corrected and notify the 
                                Administrator of such closure, which 
                                closure may be grounds for the 
                                immediate termination or suspension of 
                                the contract or license of the 
                                contractor or licensee.
                    (C) Cost reimbursement.--The Executive agency shall 
                reimburse the Administrator for the costs of carrying 
                out subparagraph (A) for child care facilities located 
                in an executive facility other than an executive 
                facility of the General Services Administration. If an 
                entity is sponsoring a child care facility for 2 or 
                more Executive agencies, the Administrator shall 
                allocate the costs of providing such reimbursement with 
                respect to the entity among the agencies in a fair and 
                equitable manner, based on the extent to which each 
                agency is eligible to place children in the facility.
            (5) Disclosure of prior violations to parents and facility 
        employees.--The Administrator shall issue regulations that 
        require that each entity sponsoring a child care facility in an 
        Executive facility, upon receipt by the child care facility or 
        the entity (as applicable) of a request by any individual who 
        is a parent of any child enrolled at the facility, a parent of 
        a child for whom an application has been submitted to enroll at 
        the facility, or an employee of the facility, shall provide to 
        the individual--
                    (A) copies of all notifications of deficiencies 
                that have been provided in the past with respect to the 
                facility under clause (i)(III) or (ii)(III), as 
                applicable, of paragraph (4)(B); and
                    (B) a description of the actions that were taken to 
                correct the deficiencies.
    (c) Legislative Branch Standards and Compliance.--
            (1) State and local licensing requirements, health, safety, 
        and facility standards, and accreditation standards.--
                    (A) In general.--The Chief Administrative Officer 
                of the House of Representatives shall issue 
                regulations, approved by the Committee on House 
                Oversight of the House of Representatives, governing 
                the operation of the House of Representatives Child 
                Care Center. The Librarian of Congress shall issue 
                regulations, approved by the appropriate House and 
                Senate committees with jurisdiction over the Library of 
                Congress, governing the operation of the child care 
                center located at the Library of Congress. Subject to 
                paragraph (3), the head of a designated entity in the 
                Senate shall issue regulations, approved by the 
                Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, 
                governing the operation of the Senate Employees' Child 
                Care Center.
                    (B) Stringency.--The regulations described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be no less stringent in content 
                and effect than the requirements of subsection (b)(1) 
                and the regulations issued by the Administrator under 
                paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b), except to the 
                extent that appropriate administrative officers, with 
                the approval of the appropriate House or Senate 
                committees with oversight responsibility for the 
                centers, may jointly or independently determine, for 
                good cause shown and stated together with the 
                regulations, that a modification of such regulations 
                would be more effective for the implementation of the 
                requirements and standards described in paragraphs (1), 
                (2), and (3) of subsection (b) for child care 
                facilities, and entities sponsoring child care 
                facilities, in the corresponding legislative 
                facilities.
            (2) Evaluation and compliance.--
                    (A) Administration.--Subject to paragraph (3), the 
                Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
                Representatives, the head of the designated Senate 
                entity, and the Librarian of Congress, shall have the 
                same authorities and duties--
                            (i) with respect to the evaluation of, 
                        compliance of, and cost reimbursement for child 
                        care facilities, and entities sponsoring child 
                        care facilities, in the corresponding 
                        legislative facilities as the Administrator has 
                        under subsection (b)(4) with respect to the 
                        evaluation of, compliance of, and cost 
                        reimbursement for such facilities and entities 
                        sponsoring such facilities, in executive 
                        facilities; and
                            (ii) with respect to issuing regulations 
                        requiring the entities sponsoring child care 
                        facilities in the corresponding legislative 
                        facilities to provide notifications of 
                        deficiencies and descriptions of corrective 
                        actions as the Administration has under 
                        subsection (b)(5) with respect to issuing 
                        regulations requiring the entities sponsoring 
                        child care facilities in executive facilities 
                        to provide notifications of deficiencies and 
                        descriptions of corrective actions.
                    (B) Enforcement.--Subject to paragraph (3), the 
                Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Rules and 
                Administration of the Senate, as appropriate, shall 
                have the same authorities and duties with respect to 
                the compliance of and cost reimbursement for child care 
                facilities, and entities sponsoring child care 
                facilities, in the corresponding legislative facilities 
                as the head of an Executive agency has under subsection 
                (b)(4) with respect to the compliance of and cost 
                reimbursement for such facilities and entities 
                sponsoring such facilities, in executive facilities.
            (3) Interim status.--Until such time as the Committee on 
        Rules and Administration of the Senate establishes, or the head 
        of the designated Senate entity establishes, standards 
        described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) 
        governing the operation of the Senate Employees' Child Care 
        Center, such facility shall maintain current accreditation 
        status.
    (d) Application.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
section, if 8 or more child care facilities are sponsored in facilities 
owned or leased by an Executive agency, the Administrator shall 
delegate to the head of the agency the evaluation and compliance 
responsibilities assigned to the Administrator under subsection 
(b)(4)(A).
    (e) Technical Assistance, Studies, and Reviews.--The Administrator 
may provide technical assistance, and conduct and provide the results 
of studies and reviews, for Executive agencies, and entities sponsoring 
child care facilities in executive facilities, on a reimbursable basis, 
in order to assist the entities in complying with this section. The 
Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, the 
Librarian of Congress, and the head of the designated Senate entity 
described in subsection (c), may provide technical assistance, and 
conduct and provide the results of studies and reviews, or request that 
the Administrator provide technical assistance, and conduct and provide 
the results of studies and reviews, for the corresponding legislative 
offices, and entities operating child care facilities in the 
corresponding legislative facilities, on a reimbursable basis, in order 
to assist the entities in complying with this section.
    (f) Council.--The Administrator shall establish an interagency 
council, comprised of representatives of all Executive agencies 
described in subsection (d), a representative of the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, a 
representative of the designated Senate entity described in subsection 
(c), and a representative of the Librarian of Congress, to facilitate 
cooperation and sharing of best practices, and to develop and 
coordinate policy, regarding the provision of child care, including the 
provision of areas for nursing mothers and other lactation support 
facilities and services, in the Federal Government.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $900,000 for fiscal year 1999 
and such sums as may be necessary for each subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 703. Child Care Services for Federal Employees. (a) In 
General.--An Executive agency that provides or proposes to provide 
child care services for Federal employees may use agency funds to 
provide the child care services, in a facility that is owned or leased 
by an Executive agency, or through a contractor, for civilian employees 
of such agency.
    (b) Affordability.--Funds so used with respect to any such facility 
or contractor shall be applied to improve the affordability of child 
care for lower income Federal employees using or seeking to use the 
child care services offered by such facility or contractor.
    (c) Regulations.--The Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management shall, within 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, issue regulations necessary to carry out this section.
    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 105 of title 5, 
United States Code, but does not include the General Accounting Office.
    Sec. 704. Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to Child Care Provided 
by Federal Agencies. (a) Availability of Federal Child Care Centers for 
Onsite Contractors; Percentage Goal.--Section 616(a) of the Act of 
December 22, 1987 (40 U.S.C. 490b), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(2) such officer or agency determines that such space 
        will be used to provide child care and related services to--
                    ``(A) children of Federal employees or onsite 
                Federal contractors; or
                    ``(B) dependent children who live with Federal 
                employees or onsite Federal contractors; and
            ``(3) such officer or agency determines that such 
        individual or entity will give priority for available child 
        care and related services in such space to Federal employees 
        and onsite Federal contractors.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e)(1)(A) The Administrator of General Services shall confirm 
that at least 50 percent of aggregate enrollment in Federal child care 
centers governmentwide are children of Federal employees or onsite 
Federal contractors, or dependent children who live with Federal 
employees or onsite Federal contractors.
    ``(B) Each provider of child care services at an individual Federal 
child care center shall maintain 50 percent of the enrollment at the 
center of children described under subparagraph (A) as a goal for 
enrollment at the center.
    ``(C) If enrollment at a center does not meet the percentage goal 
under subparagraph (B), the provider shall develop and implement a 
business plan with the sponsoring Federal agency to achieve the goal 
within a reasonable timeframe. Such plan shall be approved by the 
Administrator of General Services based on--
            ``(i) compliance of the plan with standards established by 
        the Administrator; and
            ``(ii) the effect of the plan on achieving the aggregate 
        Federal enrollment percentage goal.
    ``(2) The Administrator of General Services Administration may 
enter into public-private partnerships or contracts with 
nongovernmental entities to increase the capacity, quality, 
affordability, or range of child care and related services and may, on 
a demonstration basis, waive subsection (a)(3) and paragraph (1) of 
this subsection.''.
    (b) Payment of Costs of Training Programs.--Section 616(b)(3) of 
such Act (40 U.S.C. 490(b)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(3) If an agency has a child care facility in its space, or is a 
sponsoring agency for a child care facility in other Federal or leased 
space, the agency or the General Services Administration may pay 
accreditation fees, including renewal fees, for that center to be 
accredited. Any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United 
States that provides or proposes to provide child care services for 
children referred to in subsection (a)(2), may reimburse any Federal 
employee or any person employed to provide such services for the costs 
of training programs, conferences, and meetings and related travel, 
transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred in connection with 
those activities. Any per diem allowance made under this section shall 
not exceed the rate specified in regulations prescribed under section 
5707 of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (c) Provision of Child Care by Private Entities.--Section 616(d) of 
such Act (40 U.S.C. 490b(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d)(1) If a Federal agency has a child care facility in its 
space, or is a sponsoring agency for a child care facility in other 
Federal or leased space, the agency, the child care center board of 
directors, or the General Services Administration may enter into an 
agreement with 1 or more private entities under which such private 
entities would assist in defraying the general operating expenses of 
the child care providers including salaries and tuition assistance 
programs at the facility.
    ``(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a Federal 
agency does not have a child care program, or if the Administrator of 
General Services has identified a need for child care for Federal 
employees at an agency providing child care services that do not meet 
the requirements of subsection (a), the agency or the Administrator may 
enter into an agreement with a non-Federal, licensed, and accredited 
child care facility, or a planned child care facility that will become 
licensed and accredited, for the provision of child care services for 
children of Federal employees.
    ``(B) Before entering into an agreement, the head of the Federal 
agency shall determine that child care services to be provided through 
the agreement are more cost effectively provided through such 
arrangement than through establishment of a Federal child care 
facility.
    ``(C) The agency may provide any of the services described in 
subsection (b)(3) if, in exchange for such services, the facility 
reserves child care spaces for children referred to in subsection 
(a)(2), as agreed to by the parties. The cost of any such services 
provided by an agency to a child care facility on behalf of another 
agency shall be reimbursed by the receiving agency.
    ``(3) This subsection does not apply to residential child care 
programs.''.
    (d) Pilot Projects.--Section 616 of such Act (40 U.S.C. 490b) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f)(1) Upon approval of the agency head, an agency may conduct a 
pilot project not otherwise authorized by law for no more than 2 years 
to test innovative approaches to providing alternative forms of quality 
child care assistance for Federal employees. An agency head may extend 
a pilot project for an additional 2-year period. Before any pilot 
project may be implemented, a determination shall be made by the agency 
head that initiating the pilot project would be more cost-effective 
than establishing a new child care facility. Costs of any pilot project 
shall be borne solely by the agency conducting the pilot project.
    ``(2) The Administrator of General Services shall serve as an 
information clearinghouse for pilot projects initiated by other 
agencies to disseminate information concerning the pilot projects to 
the other agencies.
    ``(3) Within 6 months after completion of the initial 2-year pilot 
project period, an agency conducting a pilot project under this 
subsection shall provide for an evaluation of the impact of the project 
on the delivery of child care services to Federal employees, and shall 
submit the results of the evaluation to the Administrator of General 
Services. The Administrator shall share the results with other Federal 
agencies.''.
    (e) Background Check.--Section 616 of such Act (40 U.S.C. 490b) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Each child care center located in a federally owned or leased 
facility shall ensure that each employee of such center (including any 
employee whose employment began before the date of enactment of this 
subsection) shall undergo a criminal history background check 
consistent with section 3 of the National Child Protection Act of 1993 
(42 U.S.C. 5119a).''.
    Sec. 705. Requirement to Provide Lactation Support in New Federal 
Child Care Facilities. (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms 
``Federal agency'', ``executive facility'', and ``legislative 
facility'' have the meanings given the terms in section 702.
    (b) Lactation Support.--The head of each Federal agency shall 
require that each child care facility in an executive facility or a 
legislative facility that is first operated after the 1-year period 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act by the Federal agency, 
or under a contract or licensing agreement with the Federal agency, 
shall provide reasonable accommodations for the needs of breast-fed 
infants and their mothers, including providing a lactation area or a 
room for nursing mothers in part of the operating plan for the 
facility.

   TITLE VIII--OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY REAUTHORIZATION

    Sec. 801. Short Title. This title may be cited as the ``Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998''.
    Sec. 802. Definitions. In this title:
            (1) Demand reduction.--The term ``demand reduction'' means 
        any activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program 
        agency, other than an enforcement activity, that is intended to 
        reduce the use of drugs, including--
                    (A) drug abuse education;
                    (B) drug abuse prevention;
                    (C) drug abuse treatment;
                    (D) drug abuse research;
                    (E) drug abuse rehabilitation;
                    (F) drug-free workplace programs; and
                    (G) drug testing.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        National Drug Control Policy.
            (3) Drug.--The term ``drug'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``controlled substance'' in section 102(6) of the Controlled 
        Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)).
            (4) Drug control.--The term ``drug control'' means any 
        activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency 
        involving supply reduction or demand reduction, including any 
        activity to reduce the use of tobacco or alcoholic beverages by 
        underage individuals.
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the fund established 
        under section 803(d).
            (6) National drug control program.--The term ``National 
        Drug Control Program'' means programs, policies, and activities 
        undertaken by National Drug Control Program agencies pursuant 
        to the responsibilities of such agencies under the National 
        Drug Control Strategy.
            (7) National drug control program agency.--The term 
        ``National Drug Control Program agency'' means any department 
        or agency of the Federal Government and all dedicated units 
        thereof, with responsibilities under the National Drug Control 
        Strategy, as designated by the President, or jointly by the 
        Director and the head of the department or agency.
            (8) National drug control strategy.--The term ``National 
        Drug Control Strategy'' means the strategy developed and 
        submitted to Congress under section 806.
            (9) Office.--Unless the context clearly implicates 
        otherwise, the term ``Office'' means the Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy established under section 803(a).
            (10) State and local affairs.--The term ``State and local 
        affairs'' means domestic activities conducted by a National 
        Drug Control Program agency that are intended to reduce the 
        availability and use of drugs, including--
                    (A) coordination and facilitation of Federal, 
                State, and local law enforcement drug control efforts;
                    (B) promotion of coordination and cooperation among 
                the drug supply reduction and demand reduction agencies 
                of the various States, territories, and units of local 
                government; and
                    (C) such other cooperative governmental activities 
                which promote a comprehensive approach to drug control 
                at the national, State, territory, and local levels.
            (11) Supply reduction.--The term ``supply reduction'' means 
        any activity of a program conducted by a National Drug Control 
        Program agency that is intended to reduce the availability or 
        use of drugs in the United States and abroad, including--
                    (A) international drug control;
                    (B) foreign and domestic drug intelligence;
                    (C) interdiction; and
                    (D) domestic drug law enforcement, including law 
                enforcement directed at drug users.
    Sec. 803. Office of National Drug Control Policy. (a) Establishment 
of Office.--There is established in the Executive Office of the 
President an Office of National Drug Control Policy, which shall--
            (1) develop national drug control policy;
            (2) coordinate and oversee the implementation of that 
        national drug control policy;
            (3) assess and certify the adequacy of national drug 
        control programs and the budget for those programs; and
            (4) evaluate the effectiveness of the national drug control 
        programs.
    (b) Director and Deputy Directors.--
            (1) Director.--There shall be at the head of the Office a 
        Director of National Drug Control Policy.
            (2) Deputy director of national drug control policy.--There 
        shall be in the Office a Deputy Director of National Drug 
        Control Policy, who shall assist the Director in carrying out 
        the responsibilities of the Director under this title.
            (3) Other deputy directors.--There shall be in the Office--
                    (A) a Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, who 
                shall be responsible for the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 802(1);
                    (B) a Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, who 
                shall be responsible for the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 802(11); and
                    (C) a Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, 
                who shall be responsible for the activities described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 802(10).
    (c) Access by Congress.--The location of the Office in the 
Executive Office of the President shall not be construed as affecting 
access by Congress, or any committee of the House of Representatives or 
the Senate, to any--
            (1) information, document, or study in the possession of, 
        or conducted by or at the direction of the Director; or
            (2) personnel of the Office.
    (d) Office of National Drug Control Policy Gift Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund for the receipt of gifts, both real 
        and personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
        work of the Office under section 804(c).
            (2) Contributions.--The Office may accept, hold, and 
        administer contributions to the Fund.
            (3) Use of amounts deposited.--Amounts deposited in the 
        Fund are authorized to be appropriated, to remain available 
        until expended for authorized purposes at the discretion of the 
        Director.
    Sec. 804. Appointment and Duties of Director and Deputy Directors. 
(a) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, the Deputy Director of 
        National Drug Control Policy, the Deputy Director for Demand 
        Reduction, the Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, and the 
        Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, shall each be 
        appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
        of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the 
        President. In appointing the Deputy Director for Demand 
        Reduction under this paragraph, the President shall take into 
        consideration the scientific, educational or professional 
        background of the individual, and whether the individual has 
        experience in the fields of substance abuse prevention, 
        education, or treatment.
            (2) Duties of deputy director of national drug control 
        policy.--The Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy 
        shall--
                    (A) carry out the duties and powers prescribed by 
                the Director; and
                    (B) serve as the Director in the absence of the 
                Director or during any period in which the office of 
                the Director is vacant.
            (3) Designation of other officers.--In the absence of the 
        Deputy Director, or if the office of the Deputy Director is 
        vacant, the Director shall designate such other permanent 
        employee of the Office to serve as the Director, if the 
        Director is absent or unable to serve.
            (4) Prohibition.--No person shall serve as Director or a 
        Deputy Director while serving in any other position in the 
        Federal Government.
            (5) Prohibition on political campaigning.--Any officer or 
        employee of the Office who is appointed to that position by the 
        President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, 
        may not participate in Federal election campaign activities, 
        except that such official is not prohibited by this paragraph 
        from making contributions to individual candidates.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Director shall--
            (1) assist the President in the establishment of policies, 
        goals, objectives, and priorities for the National Drug Control 
        Program;
            (2) promulgate the National Drug Control Strategy and each 
        report under section 806(b) in accordance with section 806;
            (3) coordinate and oversee the implementation by the 
        National Drug Control Program agencies of the policies, goals, 
        objectives, and priorities established under paragraph (1) and 
        the fulfillment of the responsibilities of such agencies under 
        the National Drug Control Strategy;
            (4) make such recommendations to the President as the 
        Director determines are appropriate regarding changes in the 
        organization, management, and budgets of Federal departments 
        and agencies engaged in drug enforcement, and changes in the 
        allocation of personnel to and within those departments and 
        agencies, to implement the policies, goals, priorities, and 
        objectives established under paragraph (1) and the National 
        Drug Control Strategy;
            (5) consult with and assist State and local governments 
        with respect to the formulation and implementation of National 
        Drug Control Policy and their relations with the National Drug 
        Control Program agencies;
            (6) appear before duly constituted committees and 
        subcommittees of the House of Representatives and of the Senate 
        to represent the drug policies of the executive branch;
            (7) notify any National Drug Control Program agency if its 
        policies are not in compliance with the responsibilities of the 
        agency under the National Drug Control Strategy, transmit a 
        copy of each such notification to the President, and maintain a 
        copy of each such notification;
            (8) provide, by July 1 of each year, budget 
        recommendations, including requests for specific initiatives 
        that are consistent with the priorities of the President under 
        the National Drug Control Strategy, to the heads of departments 
        and agencies with responsibilities under the National Drug 
        Control Program, which recommendations shall--
                    (A) apply to next budget year scheduled for 
                formulation under the Budget and Accounting Act of 
                1921, and each of the 4 subsequent fiscal years; and
                    (B) address funding priorities developed in the 
                National Drug Control Strategy;
            (9) serve as the representative of the President in 
        appearing before Congress on all issues relating to the 
        National Drug Control Program;
            (10) in any matter affecting national security interests, 
        work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for 
        National Security Affairs; and
            (11) serve as primary spokesperson of the Administration on 
        drug issues.
    (c) National Drug Control Program Budget.--
            (1) Responsibilities of national drug control program 
        agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--For each fiscal year, the head of 
                each department, agency, or program of the Federal 
                Government with responsibilities under the National 
                Drug Control Program Strategy shall transmit to the 
                Director a copy of the proposed drug control budget 
                request of the department, agency, or program at the 
                same time as that budget request is submitted to their 
                superiors (and before submission to the Office of 
                Management and Budget) in the preparation of the budget 
                of the President submitted to Congress under section 
                1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
                    (B) Submission of drug control budget requests.--
                The head of each National Drug Control Program agency 
                shall ensure timely development and submission to the 
                Director of each proposed drug control budget request 
                transmitted pursuant to this paragraph, in such format 
                as may be designated by the Director with the 
                concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management 
                and Budget.
            (2) National drug control program budget proposal.--For 
        each fiscal year, following the transmission of proposed drug 
        control budget requests to the Director under paragraph (1), 
        the Director shall, in consultation with the head of each 
        National Drug Control Program agency--
                    (A) develop a consolidated National Drug Control 
                Program budget proposal designed to implement the 
                National Drug Control Strategy;
                    (B) submit the consolidated budget proposal to the 
                President; and
                    (C) after submission under subparagraph (B), submit 
                the consolidated budget proposal to Congress.
            (3) Review and certification of budget requests and budget 
        submissions of national drug control program agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall review each 
                drug control budget request submitted to the Director 
                under paragraph (1).
                    (B) Review of budget requests.--
                            (i) Inadequate requests.--If the Director 
                        concludes that a budget request submitted under 
                        paragraph (1) is inadequate, in whole or in 
                        part, to implement the objectives of the 
                        National Drug Control Strategy with respect to 
                        the department, agency, or program at issue for 
                        the year for which the request is submitted, 
                        the Director shall submit to the head of the 
                        applicable National Drug Control Program agency 
                        a written description of funding levels and 
                        specific initiatives that would, in the 
                        determination of the Director, make the request 
                        adequate to implement those objectives.
                            (ii) Adequate requests.--If the Director 
                        concludes that a budget request submitted under 
                        paragraph (1) is adequate to implement the 
                        objectives of the National Drug Control 
                        Strategy with respect to the department, 
                        agency, or program at issue for the year for 
                        which the request is submitted, the Director 
                        shall submit to the head of the applicable 
                        National Drug Control Program agency a written 
                        statement confirming the adequacy of the 
                        request.
                            (iii) Record.--The Director shall maintain 
                        a record of each description submitted under 
                        clause (i) and each statement submitted under 
                        clause (ii).
                    (C) Agency response.--
                            (i) In general.--The head of a National 
                        Drug Control Program agency that receives a 
                        description under subparagraph (B)(i) shall 
                        include the funding levels and initiatives 
                        described by the Director in the budget 
                        submission for that agency to the Office of 
                        Management and Budget.
                            (ii) Impact statement.--The head of a 
                        National Drug Control Program agency that has 
                        altered its budget submission under this 
                        subparagraph shall include as an appendix to 
                        the budget submission for that agency to the 
                        Office of Management and Budget an impact 
                        statement that summarizes--
                                    (I) the changes made to the budget 
                                under this subparagraph; and
                                    (II) the impact of those changes on 
                                the ability of that agency to perform 
                                its other responsibilities, including 
                                any impact on specific missions or 
                                programs of the agency.
                            (iii) Congressional notification.--The head 
                        of a National Drug Control Program agency shall 
                        submit a copy of any impact statement under 
                        clause (ii) to the Senate and the House of 
                        Representatives at the time the budget for that 
                        agency is submitted to Congress under section 
                        1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
                    (D) Certification of budget submissions.--
                            (i) In general.--At the time a National 
                        Drug Control Program agency submits its budget 
                        request to the Office of Management and Budget, 
                        the head of the National Drug Control Program 
                        agency shall submit a copy of the budget 
                        request to the Director.
                            (ii) Certification.--The Director--
                                    (I) shall review each budget 
                                submission submitted under clause (i); 
                                and
                                    (II) based on the review under 
                                subclause (I), if the Director 
                                concludes that the budget submission of 
                                a National Drug Control Program agency 
                                does not include the funding levels and 
                                initiatives described under 
                                subparagraph (B)--
                                            (aa) may issue a written 
                                        decertification of that 
                                        agency's budget; and
                                            (bb) in the case of a 
                                        decertification issued under 
                                        item (aa), shall submit to the 
                                        Senate and the House of 
                                        Representatives a copy of the--

                                                    (aaa) 
                                                decertification issued 
                                                under item (aa);

                                                    (bbb) the 
                                                description made under 
                                                subparagraph (B); and

                                                    (ccc) the budget 
                                                recommendations made 
                                                under subsection 
                                                (b)(8).

            (4) Reprogramming and transfer requests.--
                    (A) In general.--No National Drug Control Program 
                agency shall submit to Congress a reprogramming or 
                transfer request with respect to any amount of 
                appropriated funds in an amount exceeding $5,000,000 
                that is included in the National Drug Control Program 
                budget unless the request has been approved by the 
                Director.
                    (B) Appeal.--The head of any National Drug Control 
                Program agency may appeal to the President any 
                disapproval by the Director of a reprogramming or 
                transfer request under this paragraph.
    (d) Powers of the Director.--In carrying out subsection (b), the 
Director may--
            (1) select, appoint, employ, and fix compensation of such 
        officers and employees of the Office as may be necessary to 
        carry out the functions of the Office under this title;
            (2) subject to subsection (e)(3), request the head of a 
        department or agency, or program of the Federal Government to 
        place department, agency, or program personnel who are engaged 
        in drug control activities on temporary detail to another 
        department, agency, or program in order to implement the 
        National Drug Control Strategy, and the head of the department 
        or agency shall comply with such a request;
            (3) use for administrative purposes, on a reimbursable 
        basis, the available services, equipment, personnel, and 
        facilities of Federal, State, and local agencies;
            (4) procure the services of experts and consultants in 
        accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
        relating to appointments in the Federal Service, at rates of 
        compensation for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent 
        of the rate of pay payable under level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5311 of title 5, United States Code;
            (5) accept and use gifts and donations of property from 
        Federal, State, and local government agencies, and from the 
        private sector, as authorized in section 803(d);
            (6) use the mails in the same manner as any other 
        department or agency of the executive branch;
            (7) monitor implementation of the National Drug Control 
        Program, including--
                    (A) conducting program and performance audits and 
                evaluations;
                    (B) requesting assistance from the Inspector 
                General of the relevant agency in such audits and 
                evaluations; and
                    (C) commissioning studies and reports by a National 
                Drug Control Program agency, with the concurrence of 
                the head of the affected agency;
            (8) transfer funds made available to a National Drug 
        Control Program agency for National Drug Control Strategy 
        programs and activities to another account within such agency 
        or to another National Drug Control Program agency for National 
        Drug Control Strategy programs and activities, except that--
                    (A) the authority under this paragraph may be 
                limited in an annual appropriations Act or other 
                provision of Federal law;
                    (B) the Director may exercise the authority under 
                this paragraph only with the concurrence of the head of 
                each affected agency;
                    (C) in the case of an interagency transfer, the 
                total amount of transfers under this paragraph may not 
                exceed 2 percent of the total amount of funds made 
                available for National Drug Control Strategy programs 
                and activities to the agency from which those funds are 
                to be transferred;
                    (D) funds transferred to an agency under this 
                paragraph may only be used to increase the funding for 
                programs or activities that--
                            (i) have a higher priority than the 
                        programs or activities from which funds are 
                        transferred; and
                            (ii) have been authorized by Congress; and
                    (E) the Director shall--
                            (i) submit to Congress, including to the 
                        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
                        the House of Representatives and other 
                        applicable committees of jurisdiction, a 
                        reprogramming or transfer request in advance of 
                        any transfer under this paragraph in accordance 
                        with the regulations of the affected agency or 
                        agencies; and
                            (ii) annually submit to Congress a report 
                        describing the effect of all transfers of funds 
                        made pursuant to this paragraph or subsection 
                        (c)(4) during the 12-month period preceding the 
                        date on which the report is submitted;
            (9) issue to the head of a National Drug Control Program 
        agency a fund control notice described in subsection (f) to 
        ensure compliance with the National Drug Control Program 
        Strategy; and
            (10) participate in the drug certification process pursuant 
        to section 490 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2291j).
    (e) Personnel Detailed to Office.--
            (1) Evaluations.--Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 
        43 of title 5, United States Code, the Director shall perform 
        the evaluation of the performance of any employee detailed to 
        the Office for purposes of the applicable performance appraisal 
        system established under such chapter for any rating period, or 
        part thereof, that such employee is detailed to such office.
            (2) Compensation.--
                    (A) Bonus payments.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the Director may provide periodic 
                bonus payments to any employee detailed to the Office.
                    (B) Restrictions.--An amount paid under this 
                paragraph to an employee for any period--
                            (i) shall not be greater than 20 percent of 
                        the basic pay paid or payable to such employee 
                        for such period; and
                            (ii) shall be in addition to the basic pay 
                        of such employee.
                    (C) Aggregate amount.--The aggregate amount paid 
                during any fiscal year to an employee detailed to the 
                Office as basic pay, awards, bonuses, and other 
                compensation shall not exceed the annual rate payable 
                at the end of such fiscal year for positions at level 
                III of the Executive Schedule.
            (3) Maximum number of detailees.--The maximum number of 
        personnel who may be detailed to another department or agency 
        (including the Office) under subsection (d)(2) during any 
        fiscal year is--
                    (A) for the Department of Defense, 50; and
                    (B) for any other department or agency, 10.
    Sec. 805. Coordination with National Drug Control Program Agencies 
in Demand Reduction, Supply Reduction, and State and Local Affairs. (a) 
Access to Information.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the request of the Director, the head 
        of any National Drug Control Program agency shall cooperate 
        with and provide to the Director any statistics, studies, 
        reports, and other information prepared or collected by the 
        agency concerning the responsibilities of the agency under the 
        National Drug Control Strategy that relate to--
                    (A) drug abuse control; or
                    (B) the manner in which amounts made available to 
                that agency for drug control are being used by that 
                agency.
            (2) Protection of intelligence information.--
                    (A) In general.--The authorities conferred on the 
                Office and the Director by this title shall be 
                exercised in a manner consistent with provisions of the 
                National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.). 
                The Director of Central Intelligence shall prescribe 
                such regulations as may be necessary to protect 
                information provided pursuant to this title regarding 
                intelligence sources and methods.
                    (B) Duties of director.--The Director of Central 
                Intelligence shall, to the maximum extent practicable 
                in accordance with subparagraph (A), render full 
                assistance and support to the Office and the Director.
            (3) Illegal drug cultivation.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall annually submit to the Director an assessment of the 
        acreage of illegal drug cultivation in the United States.
    (b) Certification of Policy Changes to Director.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the head of a 
        National Drug Control Program agency shall, unless exigent 
        circumstances require otherwise, notify the Director in writing 
        regarding any proposed change in policies relating to the 
        activities of that agency under the National Drug Control 
        Program prior to implementation of such change. The Director 
        shall promptly review such proposed change and certify to the 
        head of that agency in writing whether such change is 
        consistent with the National Drug Control Strategy.
            (2) Exception.--If prior notice of a proposed change under 
        paragraph (1) is not practicable--
                    (A) the head of the National Drug Control Program 
                agency shall notify the Director of the proposed change 
                as soon as practicable; and
                    (B) upon such notification, the Director shall 
                review the change and certify to the head of that 
                agency in writing whether the change is consistent with 
                the National Drug Control Program.
    (c) General Services Administration.--The Administrator of General 
Services shall provide to the Director, in a reimbursable basis, such 
administrative support services as the Director may request.
    Sec. 806. Development, Submission, Implementation, and Assessment 
of National Drug Control Strategy. (a) Timing, Contents, and Process 
for Development and Submission of National Drug Control Strategy.--
            (1) Timing.--Not later than February 1, 1998, the President 
        shall submit to Congress a National Drug Control Strategy, 
        which shall set forth a comprehensive plan, covering a period 
        of not more than 10 years, for reducing drug abuse and the 
        consequences of drug abuse in the United States, by limiting 
        the availability of and reducing the demand for illegal drugs.
            (2) Contents.--
                    (A) In general.--The National Drug Control Strategy 
                submitted under paragraph (1) shall include--
                            (i) comprehensive, research-based, long-
                        range, quantifiable, goals for reducing drug 
                        abuse and the consequences of drug abuse in the 
                        United States;
                            (ii) annual, quantifiable, and measurable 
                        objectives to accomplish long-term quantifiable 
                        goals that the Director determines may be 
                        realistically achieved during each year of the 
                        period beginning on the date on which the 
                        National Drug Control Strategy is submitted;
                            (iii) 5-year projections for program and 
                        budget priorities; and
                            (iv) a review of State, local, and private 
                        sector drug control activities to ensure that 
                        the United States pursues well-coordinated and 
                        effective drug control at all levels of 
                        government.
                    (B) Classified information.--Any contents of the 
                National Drug Control Strategy that involves 
                information properly classified under criteria 
                established by an Executive order shall be presented to 
                Congress separately from the rest of the National Drug 
                Control Strategy.
            (3) Process for development and submission.--
                    (A) Consultation.--In developing and effectively 
                implementing the National Drug Control Strategy, the 
                Director--
                            (i) shall consult with--
                                    (I) the heads of the National Drug 
                                Control Program agencies;
                                    (II) Congress;
                                    (III) State and local officials;
                                    (IV) private citizens and 
                                organizations with experience and 
                                expertise in demand reduction; and
                                    (V) private citizens and 
                                organizations with experience and 
                                expertise in supply reduction; and
                            (ii) may require the National Drug 
                        Intelligence Center and the El Paso 
                        Intelligence Center to undertake specific tasks 
                        or projects to implement the National Drug 
                        Control Strategy.
                    (B) Inclusion in strategy.--The National Drug 
                Control Strategy under this subsection, and each report 
                submitted under subsection (b), shall include a list of 
                each entity consulted under subparagraph (A)(i).
            (4) Modification and resubmittal.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, the President may modify a National 
        Drug Control Strategy submitted under paragraph (1) at any 
        time.
    (b) Annual Strategy Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 1999, and on 
        February 1 of each year thereafter, the President shall submit 
        to Congress a report on the progress in implementing the 
        Strategy under subsection (a), which shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the Federal effectiveness in 
                achieving the National Drug Control Strategy goals and 
                objectives using the performance measurement system 
                described in subsection (c), including--
                            (i) an assessment of drug use and 
                        availability in the United States; and
                            (ii) an estimate of the effectiveness of 
                        interdiction, treatment, prevention, law 
                        enforcement, and international programs under 
                        the National Drug Control Strategy in effect 
                        during the preceding year, or in effect as of 
                        the date on which the report is submitted;
                    (B) any modifications of the National Drug Control 
                Strategy or the performance measurement system 
                described in subsection (c);
                    (C) an assessment of the manner in which the budget 
                proposal submitted under section 804(c) is intended to 
                implement the National Drug Control Strategy and 
                whether the funding levels contained in such proposal 
                are sufficient to implement such Strategy;
                    (D) beginning on February 1, 1999, and annually 
                thereafter, measurable data evaluating the success or 
                failure in achieving the annual measurable objectives 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii);
                    (E) an assessment of current drug use (including 
                inhalants) and availability, impact of drug use, and 
                treatment availability, which assessment shall 
                include--
                            (i) estimates of drug prevalence and 
                        frequency of use as measured by national, 
                        State, and local surveys of illicit drug use 
                        and by other special studies of--
                                    (I) casual and chronic drug use;
                                    (II) high-risk populations, 
                                including school dropouts, the homeless 
                                and transient, arrestees, parolees, 
                                probationers, and juvenile delinquents; 
                                and
                                    (III) drug use in the workplace and 
                                the productivity lost by such use;
                            (ii) an assessment of the reduction of drug 
                        availability against an ascertained baseline, 
                        as measured by--
                                    (I) the quantities of cocaine, 
                                heroin, marijuana, methamphetamine, and 
                                other drugs available for consumption 
                                in the United States;
                                    (II) the amount of marijuana, 
                                cocaine, and heroin entering the United 
                                States;
                                    (III) the number of hectares of 
                                marijuana, poppy, and coca cultivated 
                                and destroyed;
                                    (IV) the number of metric tons of 
                                marijuana, heroin, and cocaine seized;
                                    (V) the number of cocaine and 
                                methamphetamine processing laboratories 
                                destroyed;
                                    (VI) changes in the price and 
                                purity of heroin and cocaine;
                                    (VII) the amount and type of 
                                controlled substances diverted from 
                                legitimate retail and wholesale 
                                sources; and
                                    (VIII) the effectiveness of Federal 
                                technology programs at improving drug 
                                detection capabilities in interdiction, 
                                and at United States ports of entry;
                            (iii) an assessment of the reduction of the 
                        consequences of drug use and availability, 
                        which shall include estimation of--
                                    (I) the burden drug users placed on 
                                hospital emergency departments in the 
                                United States, such as the quantity of 
                                drug-related services provided;
                                    (II) the annual national health 
                                care costs of drug use, including costs 
                                associated with people becoming 
                                infected with the human 
                                immunodeficiency virus and other 
                                infectious diseases as a result of drug 
                                use;
                                    (III) the extent of drug-related 
                                crime and criminal activity; and
                                    (IV) the contribution of drugs to 
                                the underground economy, as measured by 
                                the retail value of drugs sold in the 
                                United States;
                            (iv) a determination of the status of drug 
                        treatment in the United States, by assessing--
                                    (I) public and private treatment 
                                capacity within each State, including 
                                information on the treatment capacity 
                                available in relation to the capacity 
                                actually used;
                                    (II) the extent, within each State, 
                                to which treatment is available;
                                    (III) the number of drug users the 
                                Director estimates could benefit from 
                                treatment; and
                                    (IV) the specific factors that 
                                restrict the availability of treatment 
                                services to those seeking it and 
                                proposed administrative or legislative 
                                remedies to make treatment available to 
                                those individuals; and
                            (v) a review of the research agenda of the 
                        Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center to 
                        reduce the availability and abuse of drugs; and
                    (F) an assessment of private sector initiatives and 
                cooperative efforts between the Federal Government and 
                State and local governments for drug control.
            (2) Submission of revised strategy.--The President may 
        submit to Congress a revised National Drug Control Strategy 
        that meets the requirements of this section--
                    (A) at any time, upon a determination by the 
                President, in consultation with the Director, that the 
                National Drug Control Strategy in effect is not 
                sufficiently effective; and
                    (B) if a new President or Director takes office.
    (c) Performance Measurement System.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 1998, the 
        Director shall submit to Congress a description of the national 
        drug control performance measurement system, designed in 
        consultation with affected National Drug Control Program 
        agencies, that--
                    (A) develops performance objectives, measures, and 
                targets for each National Drug Control Strategy goal 
                and objective;
                    (B) revises performance objectives, measures, and 
                targets, to conform with National Drug Control Program 
                Agency budgets;
                    (C) identifies major programs and activities of the 
                National Drug Control Program agencies that support the 
                goals and objectives of the National Drug Control 
                Strategy;
                    (D) evaluates implementation of major program 
                activities supporting the National Drug Control 
                Strategy;
                    (E) monitors consistency between the drug-related 
                goals and objectives of the National Drug Control 
                Program agencies and ensures that drug control agency 
                goals and budgets support and are fully consistent with 
                the National Drug Control Strategy; and
                    (F) coordinates the development and implementation 
                of national drug control data collection and reporting 
                systems to support policy formulation and performance 
                measurement, including an assessment of--
                            (i) the quality of current drug use 
                        measurement instruments and techniques to 
                        measure supply reduction and demand reduction 
                        activities;
                            (ii) the adequacy of the coverage of 
                        existing national drug use measurement 
                        instruments and techniques to measure the 
                        casual drug user population and groups that are 
                        at risk for drug use; and
                            (iii) the actions the Director shall take 
                        to correct any deficiencies and limitations 
                        identified pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and 
                        (B) of subsection (b)(4).
            (2) Modifications.--
                    (A) In general.--A description of any modifications 
                made during the preceding year to the national drug 
                control performance measurement system described in 
                paragraph (1) shall be included in each report 
                submitted under subsection (b).
                    (B) Annual performance objectives, measures, and 
                targets.--Not later than February 1, 1999, the Director 
                shall submit to Congress a modified performance 
                measurement system that--
                            (i) develops annual performance objectives, 
                        measures, and targets for each National Drug 
                        Control Strategy goal and objective; and
                            (ii) revises the annual performance 
                        objectives, measures, and targets to conform 
                        with the National Drug Control Program agency 
                        budgets.
    Sec. 807. High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program. (a) 
Establishment.--There is established in the Office a program to be 
known as the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.
    (b) Designation.--The Director, upon consultation with the Attorney 
General, the Secretary of the Treasury, heads of the National Drug 
Control Program agencies, and the Governor of each State, may designate 
any specified area of the United States as a high intensity drug 
trafficking area. After making such a designation and in order to 
provide Federal assistance to the area so designated, the Director 
may--
            (1) obligate such sums as appropriated for the High 
        Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program;
            (2) direct the temporary reassignment of Federal personnel 
        to such area, subject to the approval of the head of the 
        department or agency that employs such personnel;
            (3) take any other action authorized under section 804 to 
        provide increased Federal assistance to those areas;
            (4) coordinate activities under this subsection 
        (specifically administrative, recordkeeping, and funds 
        management activities) with State and local officials.
    (c) Factors for Consideration.--In considering whether to designate 
an area under this section as a high intensity drug trafficking area, 
the Director shall consider, in addition to such other criteria as the 
Director considers to be appropriate, the extent to which--
            (1) the area is a center of illegal drug production, 
        manufacturing, importation, or distribution;
            (2) State and local law enforcement agencies have committed 
        resources to respond to the drug trafficking problem in the 
        area, thereby indicating a determination to respond 
        aggressively to the problem;
            (3) drug-related activities in the area are having a 
        harmful impact in other areas of the country; and
            (4) a significant increase in allocation of Federal 
        resources is necessary to respond adequately to drug-related 
        activities in the area.
    Sec. 808. Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center. (a) 
Establishment.--There is established within the Office the Counter-Drug 
Technology Assessment Center (referred to in this section as the 
``Center''). The Center shall operate under the authority of the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy and shall serve as the central 
counter-drug technology research and development organization of the 
United States Government.
    (b) Director of Technology.--There shall be at the head of the 
Center the Director of Technology, who shall be appointed by the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy from among individuals 
qualified and distinguished in the area of science, medicine, 
engineering, or technology.
    (c) Additional Responsibilities of the Director of National Drug 
Control Policy.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, acting through the Director 
        of Technology shall--
                    (A) identify and define the short-, medium-, and 
                long-term scientific and technological needs of 
                Federal, State, and local drug supply reduction 
                agencies, including--
                            (i) advanced surveillance, tracking, and 
                        radar imaging;
                            (ii) electronic support measures;
                            (iii) communications;
                            (iv) data fusion, advanced computer 
                        systems, and artificial intelligence; and
                            (v) chemical, biological, radiological 
                        (including neutron, electron, and graviton), 
                        and other means of detection;
                    (B) identify demand reduction basic and applied 
                research needs and initiatives, in consultation with 
                affected National Drug Control Program agencies, 
                including--
                            (i) improving treatment through 
                        neuroscientific advances;
                            (ii) improving the transfer of biomedical 
                        research to the clinical setting; and
                            (iii) in consultation with the National 
                        Institute on Drug Abuse, and through 
                        interagency agreements or grants, examining 
                        addiction and rehabilitation research and the 
                        application of technology to expanding the 
                        effectiveness or availability of drug 
                        treatment;
                    (C) make a priority ranking of such needs 
                identified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) according to 
                fiscal and technological feasibility, as part of a 
                National Counter-Drug Enforcement Research and 
                Development Program;
                    (D) oversee and coordinate counter-drug technology 
                initiatives with related activities of other Federal 
                civilian and military departments;
                    (E) provide support to the development and 
                implementation of the national drug control performance 
                measurement system; and
                    (F) pursuant to the authority of the Director of 
                National Drug Control Policy under section 804, submit 
                requests to Congress for the reprogramming or transfer 
                of funds appropriated for counter-drug technology 
                research and development.
            (2) Limitation on authority.--The authority granted to the 
        Director under this subsection shall not extend to the award of 
        contracts, management of individual projects, or other 
        operational activities.
    (d) Assistance and Support to Office of National Drug Control 
Policy.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall, to the maximum extent practicable, render assistance 
and support to the Office and to the Director in the conduct of 
counter-drug technology assessment.
    Sec. 809. President's Council on Counter-Narcotics. (a) 
Establishment.--There is established a council to be known as the 
President's Council on Counter-Narcotics (referred to in this section 
as the ``Council'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Council 
        shall be composed of 18 members, of whom--
                    (A) 1 shall be the President, who shall serve as 
                Chairman of the Council;
                    (B) 1 shall be the Vice President;
                    (C) 1 shall be the Secretary of State;
                    (D) 1 shall be the Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (E) 1 shall be the Secretary of Defense;
                    (F) 1 shall be the Attorney General;
                    (G) 1 shall be the Secretary of Transportation;
                    (H) 1 shall be the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services;
                    (I) 1 shall be the Secretary of Education;
                    (J) 1 shall be the Representative of the United 
                States of America to the United Nations;
                    (K) 1 shall be the Director of the Office of 
                Management and Budget;
                    (L) 1 shall be the Chief of Staff to the President;
                    (M) 1 shall be the Director of the Office, who 
                shall serve as the Executive Director of the Council;
                    (N) 1 shall be the Director of Central 
                Intelligence;
                    (O) 1 shall be the Assistant to the President for 
                National Security Affairs;
                    (P) 1 shall be the Counsel to the President;
                    (Q) 1 shall be the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
                Staff; and
                    (R) 1 shall be the National Security Adviser to the 
                Vice President.
            (2) Additional members.--The President may, in the 
        discretion of the President, appoint additional members to the 
        Council.
    (c) Functions.--The Council shall advise and assist the President 
in--
            (1) providing direction and oversight for the national drug 
        control strategy, including relating drug control policy to 
        other national security interests and establishing priorities; 
        and
            (2) ensuring coordination among departments and agencies of 
        the Federal Government concerning implementation of the 
        National Drug Control Strategy.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Council may utilize established or ad 
        hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups chaired by 
        the Director (or a representative of the Director) in carrying 
        out the functions of the Council under this section.
            (2) Staff.--The staff of the Office, in coordination with 
        the staffs of the Vice President and the Assistant to the 
        President for National Security Affairs, shall act as staff for 
        the Council.
            (3) Cooperation from other agencies.--Each department and 
        agency of the executive branch shall--
                    (A) cooperate with the Council in carrying out the 
                functions of the Council under this section; and
                    (B) provide such assistance, information, and 
                advice as the Council may request, to the extent 
                permitted by law.
    Sec. 810. Parents Advisory Council on Youth Drug Abuse. (a) In 
General.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a Council to be 
        known as the Parents Advisory Council on Youth Drug Abuse 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Council'').
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of 
                16 members, of whom--
                            (i) 4 shall be appointed by the President, 
                        each of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a 
                        child who is not less than 6 and not more than 
                        18 years of age as of the date on which the 
                        appointment is made;
                            (ii) 4 shall be appointed by the Majority 
                        Leader of the Senate, 3 of whom shall be a 
                        parent or guardian of a child who is not less 
                        than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of 
                        the date on which the appointment is made;
                            (iii) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the Senate, each of whom shall be a 
                        parent or guardian of a child who is not less 
                        than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of 
                        the date on which the appointment is made;
                            (iv) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of 
                        the House of Representatives, 3 of whom shall 
                        be a parent or guardian of a child who is not 
                        less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age 
                        as of the date on which the appointment is 
                        made; and
                            (v) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the House of Representatives, each of 
                        whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child 
                        who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 
                        years of age as of the date on which the 
                        appointment is made.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                            (i) In general.--Each member of the Council 
                        shall be an individual from the private sector 
                        with a demonstrated interest and expertise in 
                        research, education, treatment, or prevention 
                        activities related to youth drug abuse.
                            (ii) Representatives of nonprofit 
                        organizations.--Not less than 1 member 
                        appointed under each of clauses (i) through (v) 
                        of paragraph (1)(A) shall be a representative 
                        of a nonprofit organization focused on 
                        involving parents in antidrug education and 
                        prevention.
                    (C) Date.--The appointments of the initial members 
                of the Council shall be made not later than 60 days 
                after the date of enactment of this section.
                    (D) Director.--The Director may, in the discretion 
                of the Director, serve as an adviser to the Council and 
                attend such meetings and hearings of the Council as the 
                Director considers to be appropriate.
            (3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--
                    (A) Period of appointment.--Each member of the 
                Council shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, 
                except that, of the initial members of the Council--
                            (i) 1 member appointed under each of 
                        clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (1)(A) 
                        shall be appointed for a term of 1 year; and
                            (ii) 1 member appointed under each of 
                        clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (1)(A) 
                        shall be appointed for a term of 2 years.
                    (B) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Council shall 
                not affect its powers, provided that a quorum is 
                present, but shall be filled in the same manner as the 
                original appointment. Any member appointed to fill a 
                vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for 
                which the member's predecessor was appointed shall be 
                appointed only for the remainder of that term.
                    (C) Appointment of successor.--To the extent 
                necessary to prevent a vacancy in the membership of the 
                Council, a member of the Council may serve for not more 
                than 6 months after the expiration of the term of that 
                member, if the successor of that member has not been 
                appointed.
            (4) Initial meeting.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date on which all initial members of the Council have been 
        appointed, the Council shall hold its first meeting.
            (5) Meetings.--The Council shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson.
            (6) Quorum.--Nine members of the Council shall constitute a 
        quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
            (7) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                    (A) In general.--The members of the Council shall 
                select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among 
                the members of the Council.
                    (B) Duties of chairperson.--The Chairperson of the 
                Council shall--
                            (i) serve as the executive director of the 
                        Council;
                            (ii) direct the administration of the 
                        Council;
                            (iii) assign officer and committee duties 
                        relating to the Council; and
                            (iv) issue the reports, policy positions, 
                        and statements of the Council.
                    (C) Duties of vice chairperson.--If the Chairperson 
                of the Council is unable to serve, the Vice Chairperson 
                shall serve as the Chairperson.
    (b) Duties of the Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Council--
                    (A) shall advise the President and the Members of 
                the Cabinet, including the Director, on drug 
                prevention, education, and treatment; and
                    (B) may issue reports and recommendations on drug 
                prevention, education, and treatment, in addition to 
                the annual report detailed in paragraph (2), as the 
                Council considers appropriate.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Any report or recommendation 
        issued by the Council shall be submitted to Congress.
            (3) Advice on the national drug control strategy.--Not 
        later than December 1, 1998, and on December 1 of each year 
        thereafter, the Council shall submit to the Director an annual 
        report containing drug control strategy recommendations on drug 
        prevention, education, and treatment. Each report submitted to 
        the Director under this paragraph shall be included as an 
        appendix to the report submitted by the Director under section 
        806(b).
    (c) Powers of the Council.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Council may hold such hearings, sit and 
        act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive 
        such evidence as the Council considers advisable to carry out 
        this section.
            (2) Information from federal agencies.--The Council may 
        secure directly from any department or agency of the Federal 
        Government such information as the Council considers to be 
        necessary to carry out this section. Upon request of the 
        Chairperson of the Council, the head of that department or 
        agency shall furnish such information to the Council, unless 
        the head of that department or agency determines that 
        furnishing the information to the Council would threaten the 
        national security of the United States, the health, safety, or 
        privacy of any individual, or the integrity of an ongoing 
        investigation.
            (3) Postal services.--The Council may use the United States 
        mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
            (4) Gifts.--The Council may solicit, accept, use, and 
        dispose of gifts or donations of services or property in 
        connection with performing the duties of the Council under this 
        section.
    (d) Expenses.--The members of the Council shall be allowed travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates 
authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 
of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular 
places of business in the performance of services for the Council.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Council such sums as may be necessary carry out 
this section.
    Sec. 811. Drug Interdiction. (a) Definition.--In this section, the 
term ``Federal drug control agency'' means--
            (1) the Office of National Drug Control Policy;
            (2) the Department of Defense;
            (3) the Drug Enforcement Administration;
            (4) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
            (5) the Immigration and Naturalization Service;
            (6) the United States Coast Guard;
            (7) the United States Customs Service; and
            (8) any other department or agency of the Federal 
        Government that the Director determines to be relevant.
    (b) Report.--In order to assist Congress in determining the 
personnel, equipment, funding, and other resources that would be 
required by Federal drug control agencies in order to achieve a level 
of interdiction success at or above the highest level achieved before 
the date of enactment of this title, not later than 90 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress 
and to each Federal drug control program agency a report, which shall 
include--
            (1) with respect to the southern and western border regions 
        of the United States (including the Pacific coast, the border 
        with Mexico, the Gulf of Mexico coast, and other ports of 
        entry) and in overall totals, data relating to--
                    (A) the amount of marijuana, heroin, 
                methamphetamine, and cocaine--
                            (i) seized during the year of highest 
                        recorded seizures for each drug in each region 
                        and during the year of highest recorded overall 
                        seizures; and
                            (ii) disrupted during the year of highest 
                        recorded disruptions for each drug in each 
                        region and during the year of highest recorded 
                        overall seizures; and
                    (B) the number of persons arrested for violations 
                of section 1010(a) of the Controlled Substances Import 
                and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 960(a)) and related offenses 
                during the year of the highest number of arrests on 
                record for each region and during the year of highest 
                recorded overall arrests;
            (2) the price of cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine, and 
        marijuana during the year of highest price on record during the 
        preceding 10-year period, adjusted for purity where possible; 
        and
            (3) a description of the personnel, equipment, funding, and 
        other resources of the Federal drug control agency devoted to 
        drug interdiction and securing the borders of the United States 
        against drug trafficking for each of the years identified in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for each Federal drug control agency.
    (b) Budget Process.--
            (1) Information to director.--Based on the report submitted 
        under subsection (b), each Federal drug control agency shall 
        submit to the Director, as part of each annual drug control 
        budget request submitted by the Federal drug control agency to 
        the Director under section 804(c)(2), a description of the 
        specific personnel, equipment, funding, and other resources 
        that would be required for the Federal drug control agency to 
        meet or exceed the highest level of interdiction success for 
        that agency identified in the report submitted under subsection 
        (b).
            (2) Information to congress.--The Director shall include 
        each submission under paragraph (1) in each annual consolidated 
        National Drug Control Program budget proposal submitted by the 
        Director to Congress under section 804(c), which submission 
        shall be accompanied by a description of any additional 
        resources that would be required by the Federal drug control 
        agencies to meet the highest level of interdiction success 
        identified in the report submitted under subsection (b).
    Sec. 812. Report on an Alliance Against Narcotics Trafficking in 
the Western Hemisphere. (a) Sense of Congress on Discussions for 
Alliance.--
            (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
        the President should discuss with the democratically elected 
        governments of the Western Hemisphere the prospect of forming a 
        multilateral alliance to address problems relating to 
        international drug trafficking in the Western Hemisphere.
            (2) Consultations.--In the consultations on the prospect of 
        forming an alliance described in paragraph (1), the President 
        should seek the input of such governments on the possibility of 
        forming 1 or more structures within the alliance--
                    (A) to develop a regional, multilateral strategy to 
                address the threat posed to nations in the Western 
                Hemisphere by drug trafficking; and
                    (B) to establish a new mechanism for improving 
                multilateral coordination of drug interdiction and 
                drug-related law enforcement activities in the Western 
                Hemisphere.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a 
        report on the proposal discussed under subsection (a), which 
        shall include--
                    (A) an analysis of the reactions of the governments 
                concerned to the proposal;
                    (B) an assessment of the proposal, including an 
                evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of 
                forming the alliance;
                    (C) a determination in light of the analysis and 
                assessment whether or not the formation of the alliance 
                is in the national interests of the United States;
                    (D) if the President determines that the formation 
                of the alliance is in the national interests of the 
                United States, a plan for encouraging and facilitating 
                the formation of the alliance; and
                    (E) if the President determines that the formation 
                of the alliance is not in the national interests of the 
                United States, an alternative proposal to improve 
                significantly efforts against the threats posed by 
                narcotics trafficking in the Western Hemisphere, 
                including an explanation of the manner in which the 
                alternative proposal will--
                            (i) improve upon current cooperation and 
                        coordination of counter-drug efforts among 
                        nations in the Western Hemisphere;
                            (ii) provide for the allocation of the 
                        resources required to make significant progress 
                        in disrupting and disbanding the criminal 
                        organizations responsible for the trafficking 
                        of illegal drugs in the Western Hemisphere; and
                            (iii) differ from and improve upon past 
                        strategies adopted by the United States 
                        Government which have failed to make sufficient 
                        progress against the trafficking of illegal 
                        drugs in the Western Hemisphere.
            (2) Unclassified form.--The report under paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
        classified annex.
    Sec. 813. Establishment of Special Forfeiture Fund. Section 6073 of 
the Asset Forfeiture Amendments Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1509) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 524(c)(9)'' and inserting 
                ``section 524(c)(8)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``section 9307(g)'' and inserting 
                ``section 9703(g)''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``strategy'' and 
        inserting ``Strategy''.
    Sec. 814. Technical and Conforming Amendments. (a) Title 5, United 
States Code.--Chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 5312, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Director of National Drug Control Policy.'';
            (2) in section 5313, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy.''; and
            (3) in section 5314, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy.
            ``Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy.
            ``Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, Office of 
        National Drug Control Policy.''.
    (b) National Security Act of 1947.--Section 101 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 402) is amended by redesignating 
subsection (f) as subsection (g) and inserting after subsection (e) the 
following:
    ``(f) The Director of National Drug Control Policy may, in the role 
of the Director as principal adviser to the National Security Council 
on national drug control policy, and subject to the direction of the 
President, attend and participate in meetings of the National Security 
Council.''.
    (c) Submission of National Drug Control Program Budget With Annual 
Budget Request of President.--Section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (25) the 
following:
            ``(26) a separate statement of the amount of appropriations 
        requested for the Office of National Drug Control Policy and 
        each program of the National Drug Control Program.''.
    Sec. 815. Authorization of Appropriations. There are authorized to 
be appropriated to carry out this title, to remain available until 
expended, such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2002.
    Sec. 816. Termination of Office of National Drug Control Policy. 
(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), effective on 
September 30, 2002, this title and the amendments made by this title 
are repealed.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) does not apply to section 813 or the 
amendments made by that section.

       TITLE IX--HAITIAN REFUGEE IMMIGRATION FAIRNESS ACT OF 1998

    Sec. 901. Short Title. This title may be cited as the ``Haitian 
Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998''.
    Sec. 902. Adjustment of Status of Certain Haitian Nationals. (a) 
Adjustment of Status.--
            (1) In general.--The status of any alien described in 
        subsection (b) shall be adjusted by the Attorney General to 
        that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, if 
        the alien--
                    (A) applies for such adjustment before April 1, 
                2000; and
                    (B) is otherwise admissible to the United States 
                for permanent residence, except that, in determining 
                such admissibility, the grounds for inadmissibility 
                specified in paragraphs (4), (5), (6)(A), (7)(A), and 
                (9)(B) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act shall not apply.
            (2) Relationship of application to certain orders.--An 
        alien present in the United States who has been ordered 
        excluded, deported, removed, or ordered to depart voluntarily 
        from the United States under any provision of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act may, notwithstanding such order, apply for 
        adjustment of status under paragraph (1). Such an alien may not 
        be required, as a condition on submitting or granting such 
        application, to file a separate motion to reopen, reconsider, 
        or vacate such order. If the Attorney General grants the 
        application, the Attorney General shall cancel the order. If 
        the Attorney General makes a final decision to deny the 
        application, the order shall be effective and enforceable to 
        the same extent as if the application had not been made.
    (b) Aliens Eligible for Adjustment of Status.--The benefits 
provided by subsection (a) shall apply to any alien who is a national 
of Haiti who--
            (1) was present in the United States on December 31, 1995, 
        who--
                    (A) filed for asylum before December 31, 1995,
                    (B) was paroled into the United States prior to 
                December 31, 1995, after having been identified as 
                having a credible fear of persecution, or paroled for 
                emergent reasons or reasons deemed strictly in the 
                public interest, or
                    (C) was a child (as defined in the text above 
                subparagraph (A) of section 101(b)(1) of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(b)(1)) 
                at the time of arrival in the United States and on 
                December 31, 1995, and who--
                            (i) arrived in the United States without 
                        parents in the United States and has remained 
                        without parents in the United States since such 
                        arrival,
                            (ii) became orphaned subsequent to arrival 
                        in the United States, or
                            (iii) was abandoned by parents or guardians 
                        prior to April 1, 1998 and has remained 
                        abandoned since such abandonment; and
            (2) has been physically present in the United States for a 
        continuous period beginning not later than December 31, 1995, 
        and ending not earlier than the date the application for such 
        adjustment is filed, except that an alien shall not be 
        considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical 
        presence by reason of an absence, or absences, from the United 
        States for any period or periods amounting in the aggregate to 
        not more than 180 days.
    (c) Stay of Removal.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General shall provide by 
        regulation for an alien who is subject to a final order of 
        deportation or removal or exclusion to seek a stay of such 
        order based on the filing of an application under subsection 
        (a).
            (2) During certain proceedings.--Notwithstanding any 
        provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Attorney 
        General shall not order any alien to be removed from the United 
        States, if the alien is in exclusion, deportation, or removal 
        proceedings under any provision of such Act and has applied for 
        adjustment of status under subsection (a), except where the 
        Attorney General has made a final determination to deny the 
        application.
            (3) Work authorization.--The Attorney General may authorize 
        an alien who has applied for adjustment of status under 
        subsection (a) to engage in employment in the United States 
        during the pendency of such application and may provide the 
        alien with an ``employment authorized'' endorsement or other 
        appropriate document signifying authorization of employment, 
        except that if such application is pending for a period 
        exceeding 180 days, and has not been denied, the Attorney 
        General shall authorize such employment.
    (d) Adjustment of Status for Spouses and Children.--
            (1) In general.--The status of an alien shall be adjusted 
        by the Attorney General to that of an alien lawfully admitted 
        for permanent residence, if--
                    (A) the alien is a national of Haiti;
                    (B) the alien is the spouse, child, or unmarried 
                son or daughter, of an alien whose status is adjusted 
                to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
                residence under subsection (a), except that, in the 
                case of such an unmarried son or daughter, the son or 
                daughter shall be required to establish that he or she 
                has been physically present in the United States for a 
                continuous period beginning not later than December 31, 
                1995, and ending not earlier than the date the 
                application for such adjustment is filed;
                    (C) the alien applies for such adjustment and is 
                physically present in the United States on the date the 
                application is filed; and
                    (D) the alien is otherwise admissible to the United 
                States for permanent residence, except that, in 
                determining such admissibility, the grounds for 
                inadmissibility specified in paragraphs (4), (5), 
                (6)(A), (7)(A), and (9)(B) of section 212(a) of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply.
            (2) Proof of continuous presence.--For purposes of 
        establishing the period of continuous physical presence 
        referred to in paragraph (1)(B), an alien shall not be 
        considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical 
        presence by reason of an absence, or absences, from the United 
        States for any period or periods amounting in the aggregate to 
        not more than 180 days.
    (e) Availability of Administrative Review.--The Attorney General 
shall provide to applicants for adjustment of status under subsection 
(a) the same right to, and procedures for, administrative review as are 
provided to--
            (1) applicants for adjustment of status under section 245 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act; or
            (2) aliens subject to removal proceedings under section 240 
        of such Act.
    (f) Limitation on Judicial Review.--A determination by the Attorney 
General as to whether the status of any alien should be adjusted under 
this section is final and shall not be subject to review by any court.
    (g) No Offset in Number of Visas Available.--When an alien is 
granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent 
resident pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State shall not be 
required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be 
issued under any provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (h) Application of Immigration and Nationality Act Provisions.--
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, the 
definitions contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act shall 
apply in the administration of this section. Nothing contained in this 
title shall be held to repeal, amend, alter, modify, effect, or 
restrict the powers, duties, functions, or authority of the Attorney 
General in the administration and enforcement of such Act or any other 
law relating to immigration, nationality, or naturalization. The fact 
that an alien may be eligible to be granted the status of having been 
lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section shall not 
preclude the alien from seeking such status under any other provision 
of law for which the alien may be eligible.
    (i) Adjustment of Status Has No Effect On Eligibility For Welfare 
and Public Benefits.--No alien whose status has been adjusted in 
accordance with this section and who was not a qualified alien on the 
date of enactment of this Act may, solely on the basis of such adjusted 
status, be considered to be a qualified alien under section 431(b) of 
the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 
1996 (8 U.S.C. 1641(b)), as amended by section 5302 of the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 598), for purposes of 
determining the alien's eligibility for supplemental security income 
benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 et 
seq.) or medical assistance under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 
et seq.).
    (j) Period of Applicability.--Subsection (i) shall not apply after 
October 1, 2003.
    Sec. 903. Collection of Data on Detained Asylum Seekers. (a) In 
general.--The Attorney General shall regularly collect data on a 
nation-wide basis with respect to asylum seekers in detention in the 
United States, including the following information:
            (1) The number of detainees.
            (2) An identification of the countries of origin of the 
        detainees.
            (3) The percentage of each gender within the total number 
        of detainees.
            (4) The number of detainees listed by each year of age of 
        the detainees.
            (5) The location of each detainee by detention facility.
            (6) With respect to each facility where detainees are held, 
        whether the facility is also used to detain criminals and 
        whether any of the detainees are held in the same cells as 
        criminals.
            (7) The number and frequency of the transfers of detainees 
        between detention facilities.
            (8) The average length of detention and the number of 
        detainees by category of the length of detention.
            (9) The rate of release from detention of detainees for 
        each district of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
            (10) A description of the disposition of cases.
    (b) Annual reports.--Beginning October 1, 1999, and not later than 
October 1 of each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to 
the Committee on the Judiciary of each House of Congress a report 
setting forth the data collected under subsection (a) for the fiscal 
year ending September 30 of that year.
    (c) Availability to Public.--Copies of the data collected under 
subsection (a) shall be made available to members of the public upon 
request pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney General shall 
prescribe.
    Sec. 904. Collection of Data on Other Detained Aliens. (a) In 
General.--The Attorney General shall regularly collect data on a 
nationwide basis on aliens being detained in the United States by the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service other than the aliens described 
in section 903, including the following information:
            (1) The number of detainees who are criminal aliens and the 
        number of detainees who are noncriminal aliens who are not 
        seeking asylum.
            (2) An identification of the ages, gender, and countries of 
        origin of detainees within each category described in paragraph 
        (1).
            (3) The types of facilities, whether facilities of the 
        Immigration and Naturalization Service or other Federal, State, 
        or local facilities, in which each of the categories of 
        detainees described in paragraph (1) are held.
    (b) Length of Detention, Transfers, and Dispositions.--With respect 
to detainees who are criminal aliens and detainees who are noncriminal 
aliens who are not seeking asylum, the Attorney General shall also 
collect data concerning--
            (1) the number and frequency of transfers between detention 
        facilities for each category of detainee;
            (2) the average length of detention of each category of 
        detainee;
            (3) for each category of detainee, the number of detainees 
        who have been detained for the same length of time, in 3-month 
        increments;
            (4) for each category of detainee, the rate of release from 
        detention for each district of the Immigration and 
        Naturalization Service; and
            (5) for each category of detainee, the disposition of 
        detention, including whether detention ended due to 
        deportation, release on parole, or any other release.
    (c) Criminal Aliens.--With respect to criminal aliens, the Attorney 
General shall also collect data concerning--
            (1) the number of criminal aliens apprehended under the 
        immigration laws and not detained by the Attorney General; and
            (2) a list of crimes committed by criminal aliens after the 
        decision was made not to detain them, to the extent this 
        information can be derived by cross-checking the list of 
        criminal aliens not detained with other databases accessible to 
        the Attorney General.
    (d) Annual Reports.--Beginning on October 1, 1999, and not later 
than October 1 of each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall 
submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of each House of Congress a 
report setting forth the data collected under subsections (a), (b), and 
(c) for the fiscal year ending September 30 of that year.
    (e) Availability to Public.--Copies of the data collected under 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be made available to members of the 
public upon request pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney 
General shall prescribe.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4104

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT

HR 4104 EAS----2
HR 4104 EAS----3
HR 4104 EAS----4
HR 4104 EAS----5
HR 4104 EAS----6
HR 4104 EAS----7
HR 4104 EAS----8
HR 4104 EAS----9
HR 4104 EAS----10
HR 4104 EAS----11
HR 4104 EAS----12
HR 4104 EAS----13
HR 4104 EAS----14
HR 4104 EAS----15