[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4871 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 704
106th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4871


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 21, 2000

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the 
United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, 
and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $3,813,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2002, for information technology modernization requirements; not to 
exceed $150,000 for official reception and representation expenses; not 
to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, 
to be allocated and expended under the direction of the Secretary of 
the Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his certificate, 
$149,437,000: Provided, That of these amounts $2,900,000 is available 
for grants to State and local law enforcement groups to help fight 
money laundering.

        Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$41,787,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this 
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be 
used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service 
appropriations for Information Systems.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury, $31,940,000.

                Inspector General for Tax Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for 
police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not to 
exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; and not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $116,427,000 (reduced by $950,000).

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, $31,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Expanded Access to Financial Services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For a demonstration project to expand access to financial services 
for low-income individuals, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of these funds, such sums as may be necessary 
may be transferred to accounts of the Departments offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this 
Act.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $34,694,000, of which not to 
exceed $2,800,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2003; and 
of which $2,275,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to 
procure personal services contracts.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and 
enhancing community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed 
$11,500 for official reception and representation expenses; room and 
board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$93,483,000, of which up to $17,043,000 for materials and support costs 
of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available until 
September 30, 2003: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept 
and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for the following: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation, except that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary 
for law enforcement training activities in foreign countries undertaken 
pursuant to section 801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death 
Penalty Act of 1996, Public Law 104-32; training of private sector 
security officials on a space-available basis with reimbursement of 
actual costs to this appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal 
personnel to attend course development meetings and training sponsored 
by the Center: Provided further, That the Center is authorized to 
obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from agencies 
receiving training sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year 
shall not exceed total budgetary resources available at the end of the 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center is authorized to provide training for the Gang 
Resistance Education and Training program to Federal and non-Federal 
personnel at any facility in partnership with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$17,331,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For expenses necessary to conduct investigations and convict 
offenders involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including 
cooperative efforts with State and local law enforcement, as it relates 
to the Treasury Department law enforcement violations such as money 
laundering, violent crime, and smuggling, $103,476,000, of which 
$7,827,000 shall remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$198,736,000, of which not to exceed $10,635,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2003, for information systems modernization 
initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 812 vehicles for police-
type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; services of expert 
witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the Director; for 
payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a 
major investigative assignment requires an employee to work 16 hours or 
more per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to 
exceed $20,000 for official reception and representation expenses; for 
training of State and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the training and 
acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; 
not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research and development programs 
for Laboratory Services and Fire Research Center activities; and 
provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or 
without reimbursement, $731,325,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 
U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for 
official use by a State or local law enforcement agency if the 
conveyance will be used in joint law enforcement operations with the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the payment of overtime 
salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, supplies, and other 
similar costs of State and local law enforcement personnel, including 
sworn officers and support personnel, that are incurred in joint 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided, 
That no funds made available by this or any other Act may be used to 
transfer the functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other agencies or Departments in 
fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for salaries or administrative expenses in 
connection with consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of 
the Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and 
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to 
pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the United States to implement an amendment or amendments 
to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' 
in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it 
existed on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act upon 
applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That no funds under this Act may be used to electronically 
retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name 
or any personal identification code.

                     United States Customs Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 550 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $40,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service, $1,821,415,000 (increased by $950,000), 
of which such sums as become available in the Customs User Fee Account, 
except sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), 
shall be derived from that Account; of the total, not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for payment for rental space in connection 
with preclearance operations; not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be 
available until expended for research; of which not less than $100,000 
shall be available to promote public awareness of the child pornography 
tipline; of which not less than $200,000 shall be available for Project 
Alert; not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081; not to exceed 
$8,000,000 shall be available until expended for the procurement of 
automation infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and 
installation; and not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until 
expended for repairs to Customs facilities: Provided, That uniforms may 
be purchased without regard to the general purchase price limitation 
for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the fiscal year aggregate overtime limitation 
prescribed in subsection 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 
U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall be $30,000.

                   harbor maintenance fee collection

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

  operation, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs, the operations of which include the following: the 
interdiction of narcotics and other goods; the provision of support to 
Customs and other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement 
or administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts, $125,778,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 2001 without the prior approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                        automation modernization

    For expenses not otherwise provided for Customs automated systems, 
$233,400,000, to remain available until expended, of which $5,400,000 
shall be for the International Trade Data System, and not less than 
$105,000,000 shall be for the development of the Automated Commercial 
Environment: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be obligated for the Automated Commercial Environment until 
the United States Customs Service prepares and submits to the House 
Committee on Appropriations a final plan for expenditure that: (1) 
meets the capital planning and investment control review requirements 
established by the Office of Management and Budget, including OMB 
Circular A-11, part 3; (2) complies with the United States Customs 
Service's Enterprise Information Systems Architecture; (3) complies 
with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and systems 
acquisition management practices of the Federal Government; (4) is 
reviewed and approved by the Customs Investment Review Board, the 
Department of the Treasury, and the Office of Management and Budget; 
and (5) is reviewed by the General Accounting Office: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be obligated 
for the Automated Commercial Environment until that final expenditure 
plan has been approved by the House Committee on Appropriations.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $187,301,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for systems modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein 
from the General Fund for fiscal year 2001 shall be reduced by not more 
than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2001 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$182,901,000, and in addition, $23,600 to be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and 
personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as authorized 
by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; providing an independent 
taxpayer advocate within the Service; programs to match information 
returns and tax returns; management services; rent and utilities; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner; $3,512,232,000 (reduced by 
$25,000,000), of which up to $3,950,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling 
for the Elderly Program, and of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; issuing technical rulings; providing top quality service to 
tax exempt customers; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
$3,332,676,000 of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2003, for research.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $145,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997.

                          information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner; $1,488,090,000 which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Sec. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
     Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 103. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 844 vehicles for police-type use, 
of which 541 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is obtained in 
advance from the Committees on Appropriations; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $25,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$100,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, $823,800,000, of 
which $3,633,000 shall be available as a grant for activities related 
to the investigations of exploited children and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That up to $18,000,000 provided for 
protective travel shall remain available until September 30, 2002.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $5,021,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary of the 
Treasury in connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal 
agency or a Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances 
remaining in the Fund on September 30, 2001, shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
     Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
     Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 2001 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
     Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
Act made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, United States Customs Service, and United States Secret 
Service may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase 
or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector 
General, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Financial 
Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred 
between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 116. Of the funds available for the purchase of law 
enforcement vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of 
the Treasury certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury 
bureau is consistent with Departmental vehicle management principles: 
Provided, That the Secretary may delegate this authority to the 
Assistant Secretary for Management.
    Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 118. Section 5547(c) of title 5, U.S.C. is amended by adding 
the following paragraph:
            ``(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2), 
        premium pay for protective services authorized by section 
        3056(a) of title 18, United States Code, may be paid without 
        regard to the biweekly limitation on premium pay except that 
        such premium pay shall not be payable to an employee to the 
        extent that the aggregate of the employee's basic and premium 
        pay for the year would otherwise exceed the annual equivalent 
        of that limitation. The term premium pay refers to pay 
        authorized by sections 5542, 5545(a), (b), and (c), and 5546(a) 
        and (b) of this title. Pay authorized by section 5545a of this 
        title will be treated as basic pay for the purpose of this 
        paragraph to the extent that it does not cause an employee's 
        biweekly pay to exceed the limitation in paragraph (2). Payment 
        of additional premium pay payable under this section may be 
        made in a lump sum on the last payday of the calendar year.''.
    Sec. 119. The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Financial Management Service, to the Debt 
Services Account as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection: 
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such Salaries and 
Expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Services 
Account.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field operations of the United States Customs 
Service Office of Field Operations shall result in a reduction in 
service to the area served by the Port of Racine, Wisconsin, below the 
level of service provided in fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 121. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms shall reimburse the subcontractor that 
provided services in 1993 and 1994 pursuant to Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms contract number TATF 93-3 from amounts 
appropriated for fiscal year 2001 or unobligated balances from prior 
fiscal years, and such reimbursement shall cover the cost of all 
professional services rendered, plus interest calculated in accordance 
with the Contract Dispute Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601 et seq.)
    Sec. 122. (a) No funds appropriated to the Department of the 
Treasury in this or any Act for the establishment and operation of a 
new law enforcement training facility may be obligated or expended 
until an assessment of the need for, and cost-effectiveness of, such 
facility has been carried out by the Comptroller General of the United 
States General Accounting Office, submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations, and the establishment of said facility has been 
approved by the House and Senate Appropriations Committees.
    (b) This assessment shall include, but not be limited to:
            (1) An analysis of the Department of the Treasury's master 
        plan for the proposed facility;
            (2) Projected law enforcement training workloads at the new 
        facility and existing Treasury facilities;
            (3) Training requirements for the United States Customs 
        Service and other law enforcement agencies;
            (4) Federal law enforcement training facility assets 
        currently available and proposed in the Federal Law Enforcement 
        Training Center (FLETC) master plan;
            (5) The total estimated cost associated with the design, 
        construction, and establishment of the proposed facility;
            (6) Projected annual operating costs for the proposed 
        facility;
            (7) Projected costs associated with establishment of a new 
        law enforcement training center, including environmental impact 
        statements, environmental remediation, utilities and other 
        infrastructure; and
            (8) Cost savings and benefits of in-service training at the 
        proposed facility compared to using existing or modified 
        facilities.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 2001''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                   Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $96,093,000, of which $67,093,000 
shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 2001: Provided, 
That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to 
be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of 
mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act 
shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging 
any officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices in fiscal year 2001.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2001''.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; 
$390,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President, $52,135,000: 
Provided, That $9,072,000 of the funds appropriated shall be available 
for reimbursements to the White House Communications Agency.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $10,286,470 to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $658,000, to remain available until 
expanded, for projects for required maintenance, safety and health 
issues, Presidential transition, telecommunications infrastructure 
repair, and continued preventive maintenance.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,664,000.

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$354,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021), $3,997,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, 
$4,030,000.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,148,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles $41,185,000, of which $8,893,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2002, for a capital investment plan which 
provides for the continued modernization of the information technology 
infrastructure.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $67,143,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall 
be available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, 
United States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under 
the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be 
expended for the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of 
witnesses, except for testimony of officials of the Office of 
Management and Budget, before the Committees on Appropriations or the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That the preceding shall not apply to printed hearings 
released by the Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (title VII of division C of 
Public Law 105-277); not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in 
the provision of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, 
research, or public organizations or agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $24,759,000, of which $2,100,000 shall remain available 
until expended, consisting of $1,100,000 for policy research and 
evaluation, and $1,000,000 for the National Alliance for Model State 
Drug Laws: Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, 
administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and 
private, without fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or 
facilitating the work of the Office.

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (title VII of Division C of 
Public Law 105-277), $29,750,000, which shall remain available until 
expended, consisting of $16,000,000 for counternarcotics research and 
development projects, $13,050,000 for continued operation of the 
technology transfer program, and $700,000 for a grant to the United 
States Olympic Committee for its anti-doping program: Provided, That 
the $16,000,000 for counternarcotics research and development projects 
shall be available for transfer to other Federal departments or 
agencies.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $192,000,000 
(increased by $25,000,000) for drug control activities consistent with 
the approved strategy for each of the designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Areas, of which no less than 51 percent shall be 
transferred to State and local entities for drug control activities, 
which shall be obligated within 120 days of the date of the enactment 
of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 percent, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, may be transferred to Federal agencies and 
departments at a rate to be determined by the Director: Provided 
further, That, of this latter amount, $1,800,000 shall be used for 
auditing services.

                        special forfeiture fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 105-277, $219,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such funds may be 
transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to carry out such 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $185,000,000 
shall be to support a national media campaign, as authorized in the 
Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998: Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, $30,000,000 shall be to continue a program of matching 
grants to drug-free communities, as authorized in the Drug-Free 
Communities Act of 1997: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$1,000,000 shall be available to the Director for transfer as a grant 
to the National Drug Court Institute: Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, $3,000,000 shall be available for transfer to, or 
reimbursement of, other Federal departments and agencies to support the 
operations of the Counterdrug Intelligence Executive Secretariat.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 2001''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28, $4,158,000.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $40,240,000, of which no 
less than $4,689,500 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, $25,058,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                        Real Property Activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfer of funds)

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to 
section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act 
of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), the revenues and collections deposited into 
the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real property 
management and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased 
buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including space 
adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection 
with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual 
services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; 
repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, 
approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $5,272,370,000 of which: (1) 
$490,592,000 shall remain available until expended for repairs and 
alterations which includes associated design and construction services, 
of which $290,000,000 shall be available for basic repairs and 
alterations: Provided, That funds made available in any previous Act in 
the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for 
prospectus projects, be limited to the amount identified for each 
project, except each project in any previous Act may be increased by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or 
used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects 
shall expire on September 30, 2002, and remain in the Federal Buildings 
Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (2) $185,369,000 for installment acquisition payments 
including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain available 
until expended; (3) $2,944,905,000 for rental of space which shall 
remain available until expended; and (4) $1,580,909,000 for building 
operations which shall remain available until expended, of which 
$500,000 shall be available to conduct a site selection analysis for a 
replacement facility for the National Center for Environmental 
Prediction of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration: 
Provided further, That funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall not be available for expenses of any construction, 
repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if 
required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been 
approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each project 
for required expenses for the development of a proposed prospectus: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund 
may be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts 
necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such 
reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on 
private or other property not in Government ownership or control as may 
be appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to perform 
its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available 
from such revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues and 
collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 
2001, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) 
in excess of $5,272,370,000 shall remain in the Fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide 
responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $115,434,000, of which 
$14,659,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated from this Act shall be available to convert 
the Old Post Office at 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue in Northwest 
Washington, D.C., from office use to any other use until a 
comprehensive plan, which shall include street-level retail use, has 
been approved by the Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on 
Environment and Public Works: Provided further, That no funds from this 
Act shall be available to acquire by purchase, condemnation, or 
otherwise the leasehold rights of the existing lease with private 
parties at the Old Post Office prior to the approval of the 
comprehensive plan by the Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate 
Committee on Environment and Public Works.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $34,520,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,517,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

          general services administration--general provisions

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2001 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2002 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2002 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance 
of pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to 
the extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims 
against the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct 
construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 408. Section 411 of Public Law 106-58 is amended by striking 
``April 30, 2001'' each place it appears and inserting ``April 30, 
2002''.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $28,857,000, together with not to 
exceed $2,430,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement 
appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection 
Board.

 Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental 
                           Policy Foundation

   federal payment to morris k. udall scholarship and excellence in 
                national environmental policy foundation

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Policy Trust Fund, to be available for the 
purposes of Public Law 102-252, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $1,250,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and archived Federal records and related activities, as provided by 
law, and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $195,119,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide 
adequate storage for holdings.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $5,650,000, to remain 
available until expended.

        national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 and 
the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $9,684,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $93,471,000; 
and in addition $101,986,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs, of which $10,500,000 shall remain available until expended 
for the cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems: 
Provided, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect 
the authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 
8348(a)(1)(B) and 8909(g) of title 5, United States Code: Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of 
Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during fiscal year 2001, accept donations of money, property, and 
personal services in connection with the development of a publicity 
brochure to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of 
travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $1,360,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,745,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849) 
such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944 and the Act of August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C. 771-775) may hereafter 
be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $10,319,000.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,305,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 2001 for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the 
Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has 
within 90 days after his release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still 
qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not been 
restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Buy 
American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 509. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefit program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 510. The provision of section 509 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2001 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2001 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2002, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 513. The cost accounting standards promulgated under section 
26 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public Law 93-400; 
41 U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect to a contract under the 
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established under chapter 89 
of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 514. (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Archivist of the United States shall 
transfer to the Gerald R. Ford Foundation, as trustee, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the approximately 
2.3 acres of land located within Grand Rapids, Michigan, and further 
described in subsection (b), such grant to be in trust, with the 
beneficiary being the National Archives and Records Administration, for 
the purpose of supporting the facilities and programs of the Gerald R. 
Ford Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and the Gerald R. Ford Library 
in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in accordance with a trust agreement to be 
agreed upon by the Archivist and the Gerald R. Ford Foundation.
    (b) Land Description.--The land to be transferred pursuant to 
subsection (a) is described as follows:
    The following premises in the City of Grand Rapids, County of Kent, 
State of Michigan, described as:

        That part of Block 2, Converse Plat, and that part of Block 2 
                            of J.W. Converse Replatted Addition, and 
                            that part of Government Lot 1 of Section 
                            25, T7N, R12W, City of Grand Rapids, Kent 
                            County, Michigan, described as: BEGINNING 
                            at the NE corner of Lot 1 of Block 2 of 
                            Converse Plat; thence East 245.0 feet along 
                            the South line of Bridge Street; thence 
                            South 230.0 feet along a line which is 
                            parallel with and 170 feet East from the 
                            East line of Front Avenue as originally 
                            platted; thence West 207.5 feet parallel 
                            with the South line of Bridge Street; 
                            thence South along the centerline of 
                            vacated Front Avenue 109 feet more or less 
                            to the extended centerline of vacated 
                            Douglas Street; thence West along the 
                            centerline of vacated Douglas Street 237.5 
                            feet more or less to the East line of 
                            Scribner Avenue; thence North along the 
                            East line of Scribner Avenue 327 feet more 
                            or less to a point which is 7.0 feet South 
                            from the NW corner of Lot 8 of Block 2 of 
                            Converse Plat; thence Easterly 200 feet 
                            more or less to the place of beginning, 
                            also described as:
Parcel A--Lots 9 & 10, Block 2 of Converse Plat, being the subdivision 
                            of Government Lots 1 & 2, Section 25, T7N, 
                            R12W; also Lots 11-24, Block 2 of J.W. 
                            Converse Replatted Addition; also part of N 
                            \1/2\ of Section 25, T7N, R12W commencing 
                            at SE corner Lot 24, Block 2 of J.W. 
                            Converse Replatted Addition, thence N to NE 
                            corner of Lot 9 of Converse Plat, thence E 
                            16 feet, thence S to SW corner of Lot 23 of 
                            J.W. Converse Replatted Addition, thence W 
                            16 feet to beginning.
Parcel B--Part of Section 25, T7N, R12W, commencing on S line of Bridge 
                            Street 50 feet E of E line of Front Avenue, 
                            thence S 107.85 feet, thence 77 feet, 
                            thence N to a point on S line of said 
                            street which is 80 feet E of beginning, 
                            thence W to beginning.
Parcel C--Part of Section 25, T7N, R12W, commencing at SE corner Bridge 
                            Street & Front Avenue, thence E 50 feet, 
                            thence S 107.85 feet to alley, thence W 50 
                            feet to E line Front Avenue, thence N 
                            106.81 feet to beginning.
Parcel D--Part of Government Lot 1, Section 25, T7N, R12W, commencing 
                            at a point on S line of Bridge Street (66, 
                            wide) 170 feet E of E line of Front Avenue 
                            (75, wide), thence S 230 feet parallel with 
                            Front Avenue, thence W 170 feet parallel 
                            with Bridge Street to E line of Front 
                            Avenue, thence N along said line to a point 
                            106.81 feet S of intersection of said line 
                            with extension of N & S line of Bridge 
                            Street, thence E 127 feet, thence northerly 
                            to a point on S line of Bridge Street 130 
                            feet E of E line of Front Avenue, thence E 
                            along S line of Bridge Street to beginning.
Parcel E--Lots 1 through 8 of Block 2 of Converse Plat, being the 
                            subdivision of Government Lots 1 and 2, 
                            Section 25, T7N, R12W.
        Also part of N \1/2\ of Section 25, T7N, R12W, commencing at NW 
                            corner of Lot 9, Block 2 of J.W. Converse 
                            Replatted Addition; thence N 15 feet to SW 
                            corner of Lot 8; thence E 200 feet to SE 
                            corner Lot 1; thence S 15 feet to NE corner 
                            of Lot 10; thence W 200 feet to beginning.
        Together with any portion of vacated streets and alleys that 
                            have become part of the above property.
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) Compensation.--The land transferred pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall be transferred without compensation to the 
        United States.
            (2) Appointment of successor trustee.--In the event that 
        the Gerald R. Ford Foundation for any reason is unable or 
        unwilling to continue to serve as trustee, the Archivist of the 
        United States is authorized to appoint a successor trustee.
            (3) Reversionary interest.--If the Archivist of the United 
        States determines that the Gerald R. Ford Foundation (or a 
        successor trustee appointed under paragraph (2)) has breached 
        its fiduciary duty under the trust agreement entered into 
        pursuant to this section, the land transferred pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall revert to the United States under the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the Archivist.
    Sec. 515. (a) In General.--The Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget shall, by not later than September 30, 2001, and with public 
and Federal agency involvement, issue guidelines under sections 
3504(d)(1) and 3516 of title 44, United States Code, that provide 
policy and procedural guidance to Federal agencies for ensuring and 
maximizing the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of 
information (including statistical information) disseminated by Federal 
agencies in fulfillment of the purposes and provisions of chapter 35 of 
title 44, United States Code, commonly referred to as the Paperwork 
Reduction Act.
    (b) Content of Guidelines.--The guidelines under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) apply to the sharing by Federal agencies of, and access 
        to, information disseminated by Federal agencies; and
            (2) require that each Federal agency to which the 
        guidelines apply--
                    (A) issue guidelines ensuring and maximizing the 
                quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of 
                information (including statistical information) 
                disseminated by the agency, by not later than 1 year 
                after the date of issuance of the guidelines under 
                subsection (a);
                    (B) establish administrative mechanisms allowing 
                affected persons to seek and obtain correction of 
                information maintained and disseminated by the agency 
                that does not comply with the guidelines issued under 
                subsection (a); and
                    (C) report periodically to the Director--
                            (i) the number and nature of complaints 
                        received by the agency regarding the accuracy 
                        of information disseminated by the agency; and
                            (ii) how such complaints were handled by 
                        the agency.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement a preference for the acquisition of a firearm or 
ammunition based on whether the manufacturer or vendor of the firearm 
or ammunition is a party to an agreement with a department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States regarding codes of conduct, 
operating practices, or product design specifically related to the 
business of importing, manufacturing, or dealing in firearms or 
ammunition under chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code.
    Sec. 517. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, 
Japan, at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to 
the Senate for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article 
II, section 2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which 
has not entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol: 
Provided, That the limitation established in this section shall not 
apply to any activity otherwise authorized by law.
    Sec. 518. Within available funds, the Department of the Treasury 
and the General Services Administration are urged to use ethanol, 
biodiesel, and other alternative fuels to the maximum extent 
practicable in meeting their fuel needs.
    Sec. 519. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the salary of any officer or employee of the Office of 
Management and Budget who makes apportionments under subchapter II of 
chapter 15 of title 31, United States Code, that prevent the 
expenditure or obligation by December 31, 2000, of at least 75 percent 
of the appropriations made for fiscal year 2001 to carry out the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 
1691 et seq.), the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), and 
section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)).
    Sec. 520. Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Inspector General of each agency funded under this Act 
shall submit to the Congress a report that discloses--
            (1) any agency activity related to the collection or review 
        of singular data, or the creation of aggregate lists that 
        include personally identifiable information, about individuals 
        who access any Internet site of the agency; and
            (2) any agency activity related to entering into agreements 
        with third parties, including other government agencies, to 
        collect, review, or obtain aggregate lists or singular data 
        containing personally identifiable information relating to any 
        individual's access or viewing habits to nongovernmental 
        Internet sites.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2001 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 604. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 605. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of the enactment of this Act 
who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of 
intention to become a citizen of the United States prior to such date 
and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 606. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 607. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13101 
        (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 611. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and 
such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of 
special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 
1948 (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or 
occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the 
same actions as the Administrator of General Services may take under 
the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948 (62 Stat. 
281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto penal consequences 
under the authority and within the limits provided in section 4 of the 
Act of June 1, 1948 (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 613. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2001, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 613 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 2000, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 2001, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable 
        wage schedule in accordance with such section 613; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2001, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2001 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2001 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in fiscal year 2000 under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 2000, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 2000, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 2000.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 614. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. For the 
purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall include the entire 
suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well as any other space 
used primarily by the individual or the use of which is directly 
controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 615. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, 
contract, or other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated 
in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2001 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of 
        the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
        intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 618. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2001 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in 
Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 619. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or merchandise mined, 
produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, as 
determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1307).
    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 621. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 622. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 
4355 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or 
agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and do 
not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12958; section 7211 of title 5, U.S.C. (governing disclosures to 
Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to 
Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, 
United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act 
(governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public 
health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act 
of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could 
expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which protect 
against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including 
sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, 
and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, 
and liabilities created by said Executive order and listed statutes are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or 
agreement that is to be executed by a person connected with the conduct 
of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an 
employee or officer of the United States Government, may contain 
provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such 
document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, 
require that the person will not disclose any classified information 
received in the course of such activity unless specifically authorized 
to do so by the United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms 
shall also make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress 
or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department 
of Justice that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of 
law.
    Sec. 623. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 624. (a) In General.--For calendar year 2002, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall prepare and submit to 
Congress, with the budget submitted under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, an accounting statement and associated report 
containing--
            (1) an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits 
        (including quantifiable and nonquantifiable effects) of Federal 
        rules and paperwork, to the extent feasible--
                    (A) in the aggregate;
                    (B) by agency and agency program; and
                    (C) by major rule;
            (2) an analysis of impacts of Federal regulation on State, 
        local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and 
        economic growth; and
            (3) recommendations for reform.
    (b) Notice.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide public notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
statement and report under subsection (a) before the statement and 
report are submitted to Congress.
    (c) Guidelines.--To implement this section, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines to agencies to 
standardize--
            (1) measures of costs and benefits; and
            (2) the format of accounting statements.
    (d) Peer Review.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide for independent and external peer review of the 
guidelines and each accounting statement and associated report under 
this section. Such peer review shall not be subject to the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 625. None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 626. Hereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to 
establish scientific certification standards for explosives detection 
canines, and shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, for the 
certification of explosives detection canines employed by Federal 
agencies, or other agencies providing explosives detection services at 
airports in the United States.
    Sec. 627. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing 
or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the 
Federal Government without the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 628. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 629. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 630. Section 638(h) of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-58) is amended by striking 
``at noon on January 20, 2001'' and inserting ``on May 1, 2001''.
    Sec. 631. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO;
                    (B) Care Choices;
                    (C) OSF Health Plans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 632. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, funds made available for fiscal year 2001 by this or any other Act 
to any department or agency, which is a member of the Joint Financial 
Management Improvement Program (JFMIP), shall be available to finance 
an appropriate share of JFMIP administrative costs, as determined by 
the JFMIP, but not to exceed a total of $800,000 including the salary 
of the Executive Director and staff support.
    Sec. 633. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to the ``Policy and Operations'' account, 
General Services Administration, with the approval of the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available for fiscal 
year 2001 by this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card 
and other contracts. These funds shall be administered by the 
Administrator of General Services to support Government-wide financial, 
information technology, procurement, and other management innovations, 
initiatives, and activities, as approved by the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate 
interagency groups designated by the Director (including the Chief 
Financial Officers Council and the Joint Financial Management 
Improvement Program for financial management initiatives, the Chief 
Information Officers Council for information technology initiatives, 
and the Procurement Executives Council for procurement initiatives). 
The total funds transferred shall not exceed $17,000,000. Such 
transfers may only be made 15 days following notification of the 
Committees on Appropriations by the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget.
    Sec. 634. (a) In General.--In accordance with regulations 
promulgated by the Office of Personnel Management, an Executive agency 
which provides or proposes to provide child care services for Federal 
employees may use funds (otherwise available to such agency for 
salaries and expenses) to provide child care, in a Federal or leased 
facility, or through contract, for civilian employees of such agency.
    (b) Affordability.--Amounts so provided with respect to any such 
facility or contractor shall be applied to improve the affordability of 
child care for lower income Federal employees using or seeking to use 
the child care services offered by such facility or contractor.
    (c) Advances.--Notwithstanding 31 U.S. Code 3324, amounts paid to 
licensed or regulated child care providers may be paid in advance of 
services rendered, covering agreed upon periods, as appropriate.
    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 105 of title 5, 
United States Code, but does not include the General Accounting Office.
    (e) Notification.--None of the funds made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to implement the provisions of this section 
absent advance notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 635. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 636. Nothwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2001 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts 
to carry out the purposes of the National Science and Technology 
Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit 
multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities: Provided, That the 
Office of Management and Budget shall provide a report describing the 
budget of and resources connected with the National Science and 
Technology Council to the Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on Science; and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 637. (a) Clarification of Election Cycle Reporting of Certain 
Expenditures.--Section 304(b) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(b)), as amended by section 641(a) of the Treasury 
and General Government Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-58), is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting after ``calendar 
        year'' the following: ``(or election cycle, in the case of an 
        authorized committee of a candidate for Federal office)'';
            (2) in paragraph (6)(A), by striking ``calendar year (or 
        election cycle, in the case of an authorized committee of a 
        candidate for Federal office)'' and inserting ``election 
        cycle''; and
            (3) in paragraphs (6)(B)(iii) and (6)(B)(v), by striking 
        ``(or election cycle, in the case of an authorized committee of 
        a candidate for Federal office)'' each place it appears.
    (b) Clarification of Permissible Use of Facsimile Machines and 
Electronic Mail to File Reports.--Section 304 of the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) Any person who is required to file a report, designation, 
or statement under this Act, except those required to file 
electronically pursuant to subsection (a)(11)(A)(i), with respect to a 
contribution or expenditure not later than 24 hours after the 
contribution or expenditure is made or received may file the report, 
designation, or statement by facsimile device or electronic mail, in 
accordance with such regulations as the Commission may promulgate.
    ``(2) The Commission shall make a document which is filed 
electronically with the Commission pursuant to this paragraph 
accessible to the public on the Internet not later than 24 hours after 
the document is received by the Commission.
    ``(3) In promulgating a regulation under this paragraph, the 
Commission shall provide methods (other than requiring a signature on 
the document being filed) for verifying the documents covered by the 
regulation. Any document verified under any of the methods shall be 
treated for all purposes (including penalties for perjury) in the same 
manner as a document verified by signature.''.
    (c) Treatment of Lines of Credit Obtained by Candidates as 
Commercially Reasonable Loans.--Section 301(8)(B) of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (xiii);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (xiv) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
            ``(xv) any loan of money derived from an advance on a 
        candidate's brokerage account, credit card, home equity line of 
        credit, or other line of credit available to the candidate, if 
        such loan is made in accordance with applicable law and under 
        commercially reasonable terms and if the person making such 
        loan makes loans in the normal course of the person's 
        business.''.
    (d) Expediting Availability of Reports on Last Minute Funds.--
            (1) Requiring reports for all contributions made within 20 
        days of election; requiring reports to be made within 24 
        hours.--Section 304(a)(6)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign 
        Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(a)(6)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``after the 20th day, but more than 
                48 hours before any election'' and inserting ``during 
                the period which begins after the 20th day before an 
                election and ends at the time the polls close for such 
                election''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``within 48 
                hours after the receipt of such contribution'' and 
                inserting the following: ``not later than 24 hours 
                after the receipt of such contribution or midnight of 
                the day on which the contribution is deposited 
                (whichever is earlier),''.
            (2) Requiring actual receipt of certain independent 
        expenditure reports within 24 hours.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 304(c)(2) of such Act (2 
                U.S.C. 434(c)(2)) is amended in the matter following 
                subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) by striking ``shall be reported'' and 
                        inserting ``shall be filed''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        sentence: ``Notwithstanding subsection (a)(5), 
                        the time at which the statement under this 
                        subsection is received by the Secretary, the 
                        Commission, or any other recipient to whom the 
                        notification is required to be sent shall be 
                        considered the time of filing of the statement 
                        with the recipient.''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 304(a)(5) of 
                such Act (2 U.S.C. 434(a)(5)) is amended by striking 
                ``or (4)(A)(ii)'' and inserting ``or (4)(A)(ii), or the 
                second sentence of subsection (c)(2)''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to elections occurring after January 2001.
    Sec. 638. Retirement Provisions Relating to Certain Members of the 
Police Force of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.--(a) 
Qualified MWAA Police Officer Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
the term ``qualified MWAA police officer'' means any individual who, as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) is employed as a member of the police force of the 
        Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (hereinafter in this 
        section referred to as an ``MWAA police officer''); and
            (2) is subject to the Civil Service Retirement System or 
        the Federal Employees' Retirement System by virtue of section 
        49107(b) of title 49, United States Code.
    (b) Eligibility To Be Treated as a Law Enforcement Officer for 
Retirement Purposes.--
            (1) In general.--Any qualified MWAA police officer may, by 
        written election submitted in accordance with applicable 
        requirements under subsection (c), elect to be treated as a law 
        enforcement officer (within the meaning of section 8331 or 8401 
        of title 5, United States Code, as applicable), and to have all 
        prior service described in paragraph (2) similarly treated.
            (2) Prior service described.--The service described in this 
        paragraph is all service which an individual performed, prior 
        to the effective date of such individual's election under this 
        section, as--
                    (A) an MWAA police officer; or
                    (B) a member of the police force of the Federal 
                Aviation Administration (hereinafter in this section 
                referred to as an ``FAA police officer'').
    (c) Regulations.--The Office of Personnel Management shall 
prescribe any regulations necessary to carry out this section, 
including provisions relating to the time, form, and manner in which 
any election under this section shall be made. Such an election shall 
not be effective unless--
            (1) it is made before the employee separates from service 
        with the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, but in no 
        event later than 1 year after the regulations under this 
        subsection take effect; and
            (2) it is accompanied by payment of an amount equal to, 
        with respect to all prior service of such employee which is 
        described in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) the employee deductions that would have been 
                required for such service under chapter 83 or 84 of 
                title 5, U.S.C. (as the case may be) if such election 
                had then been in effect, minus
                    (B) the total employee deductions and contributions 
                under such chapter 83 and 84 (as applicable) that were 
                actually made for such service,
        taking into account only amounts required to be credited to the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. Any amount under 
        paragraph (2) shall be computed with interest, in accordance 
        with section 8334(e) of such title 5.
    (d) Government Contributions.--Whenever a payment under subsection 
(c)(2) is made by an individual with respect to such individual's prior 
service (as described in subsection (b)(2)), the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority shall pay into the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund any additional contributions for which 
it would have been liable, with respect to such service, if such 
individual's election under this section had then been in effect (and, 
to the extent of any prior FAA police officer service, as if it had 
then been the employing agency). Any amount under this subsection shall 
be computed with interest, in accordance with section 8334(e) of title 
5, United States Code.
    (e) Certifications.--The Office of Personnel Management shall 
accept, for the purpose of this section, the certification of--
            (1) the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (or its 
        designee) concerning any service performed by an individual as 
        an MWAA police officer; and
            (2) the Federal Aviation Administration (or its designee) 
        concerning any service performed by an individual as an FAA 
        police officer.
    (f) Reimbursement To Compensate for Unfunded Liability.--
            (1) In general.--The Metropolitan Washington Airports 
        Authority shall pay into the Civil Service Retirement and 
        Disability Fund an amount (as determined by the Director of the 
        Office of Personnel Management) equal to the amount necessary 
        to reimburse the Fund for any estimated increase in the 
        unfunded liability of the Fund (to the extent the Civil Service 
        Retirement System is involved), and for any estimated increase 
        in the supplemental liability of the Fund (to the extent the 
        Federal Employees' Retirement System is involved), resulting 
        from the enactment of this section.
            (2) Payment method.--The Metropolitan Washington Airports 
        Authority shall pay the amount so determined in five equal 
        annual installments, with interest (which shall be computed at 
        the rate used in the most recent valuation of the Federal 
        Employees' Retirement System).
    Sec. 639. (a) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``comparability payment'' refers to a 
        locality-based comparability payment under section 5304 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the term ``President's pay agent'' refers to the pay 
        agent described in section 5302(4) of such title; and
            (3) the term ``pay locality'' has the meaning given such 
        term by section 5302(5) of such title.
    (b) Notwithstanding any provision of section 5304 of title 5, 
United States Code, for purposes of determining appropriate pay 
localities and making comparability payment recommendations, the 
President's pay agent may, in accordance with succeeding provisions of 
this section, make comparisons of General Schedule pay and non-Federal 
pay within any of the metropolitan statistical areas described in 
subsection (d)(3), using--
            (1) data from surveys of the Bureau of Labor Statistics;
            (2) salary data sets obtained under subsection (c); or
            (3) any combination thereof.
    (c) To the extent necessary in order to carry out this section, the 
President's pay agent may obtain any salary data sets (referred to in 
subsection (b)) from any organization or entity that regularly compiles 
similar data for businesses in the private sector.
    (d)(1)(A) This paragraph applies with respect to the five 
metropolitan statistical areas described in paragraph (3) which--
            (i) have the highest levels of nonfarm employment (as 
        determined based on data made available by the Bureau of Labor 
        Statistics); and
            (ii) as of the date of the enactment of this Act, have not 
        previously been surveyed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (as 
        discrete pay localities) for purposes of section 5304 of title 
        5, United States Code.
    (B) The President's pay agent, based on such comparisons under 
subsection (b) as the pay agent considers appropriate, shall: (i) 
determine whether any of the five areas under subparagraph (A) warrants 
designation as a discrete pay locality; and (ii) if so, make 
recommendations as to what level of comparability payments would be 
appropriate during 2002 for each area so determined.
    (C)(i) Any recommendations under subparagraph (B)(ii) shall be 
included--
            (I) in the pay agent's report under section 5304(d)(1) of 
        title 5, United States Code, submitted for purposes of 
        comparability payments scheduled to become payable in 2002; or
            (II) if compliance with subclause (I) is impracticable, in 
        a supplementary report which the pay agent shall submit to the 
        President and the Congress no later than March 1, 2001.
    (ii) In the event that the recommendations are completed in time to 
be included in the report described in clause (i)(I), a copy of those 
recommendations shall be transmitted by the pay agent to the Congress 
contemporaneous with their submission to the President.
    (D) Each of the five areas under subparagraph (A) that so warrants, 
as determined by the President's pay agent, shall be designated as a 
discrete pay locality under section 5304 of title 5, United States 
Code, in time for it to be treated as such for purposes of 
comparability payments becoming payable in 2002.
    (2) The President's pay agent may, at any time after the 180th day 
following the submission of the report under subsection (f), make any 
initial or further determinations or recommendations under this 
section, based on any pay comparisons under subsection (b), with 
respect to any area described in paragraph (3).
    (3) An area described in this paragraph is any metropolitan 
statistical area within the continental United States that (as 
determined based on data made available by the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics and the Office of Personnel Management, respectively) has a 
high level of nonfarm employment and at least 2,500 General Schedule 
employees whose post of duty is within such area.
    (e)(1) The authority under this section to make pay comparisons and 
to make any determinations or recommendations based on such comparisons 
shall be available to the President's pay agent only for purposes of 
comparability payments becoming payable on or after January 1, 2002, 
and before January 1, 2007, and only with respect to areas described in 
subsection (d)(3).
    (2) Any comparisons and recommendations so made shall, if included 
in the pay agent's report under section 5304(d)(1) of title 5, United 
States Code, for any year (or the pay agent's supplementary report, in 
accordance with subsection (d)(1)(C)(i)(II)), be considered and acted 
on as the pay agent's comparisons and recommendations under such 
section 5304(d)(1) for the area and the year involved.
    (f)(1) No later than March 1, 2001, the President's pay agent shall 
submit to the Committee on Government Reform of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and of the Senate, a report on the use of pay comparison data, as 
described in subsection (b)(2) or (3) (as appropriate), for purposes of 
comparability payments.
    (2) The report shall include the cost of obtaining such data, the 
rationale underlying the decisions reached based on such data, and the 
relative advantages and disadvantages of using such data (including 
whether the effort involved in analyzing and integrating such data is 
commensurate with the benefits derived from their use). The report may 
include specific recommendations regarding the continued use of such 
data.
    (g)(1) No later than May 1, 2001, the President's pay agent shall 
prepare and submit to the committees specified in subsection (f)(1) a 
report relating to the ongoing efforts of the Office of Personnel 
Management, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics to revise the methodology currently being used by the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics in performing its surveys under section 5304 
of title 5, United States Code.
    (2) The report shall include a detailed accounting of any concerns 
the pay agent may have regarding the current methodology, the specific 
projects the pay agent has directed any of those agencies to undertake 
in order to address those concerns, and a time line for the anticipated 
completion of those projects and for implementation of the revised 
methodology.
    (3) The report shall also include recommendations as to how those 
ongoing efforts might be expedited, including any additional resources 
which, in the opinion of the pay agent, are needed in order to expedite 
completion of the activities described in the preceding provisions of 
this subsection, and the reasons why those additional resources are 
needed.
    Sec. 640. (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--The table under 
section 8334(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter relating to an employee by striking:

      

                                   ``7.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (2) in the matter relating to a Member or employee for 
        Congressional employee service by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (3) in the matter relating to a law enforcement officer for 
        law enforcement service and firefighter for firefighter service 
        by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (4) in the matter relating to a bankruptcy judge by 
        striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (5) in the matter relating to a judge of the United States 
        Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for service as a judge of 
        that court by striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (6) in the matter relating to a United States magistrate by 
        striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (7) in the matter relating to a Court of Federal Claims 
        judge by striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (8) in the matter relating to a member of the Capitol 
        Police by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

        and
            (9) in the matter relating to a nuclear materials courier 
        by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

    (b) Federal Employees' Retirement System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8422(a) of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(3) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian 
service shall be as follows:

      

``Employee..............................  7......................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.25...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.4....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7......................  After December 31, 2000.
Congressional employee..................  7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.
Member..................................  7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          8......................  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2002.
Law enforcement officer, firefighter,     7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
 member of the Capitol Police, or air
 traffic controller.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.
Nuclear materials courier...............  7......................  January 1, 1987, to October 16, 1998.
                                          7.5....................  October 17, 1998, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

            (2) Military service.--Section 8422(e)(6) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C).
            (3) Volunteer service.--Section 8422(f)(4) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C).
    (c) Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7001(c)(2) of the Balanced Budget 
        Act of 1997 (50 U.S.C. 2021 note) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.
            (2) Military service.--Section 252(h)(1)(A) of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(1)(A)), 
        is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.
    (d) Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7001(d)(2) of the Balanced Budget 
        Act of 1997 (22 U.S.C. 4045 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the matter before the colon, by 
                        striking ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting 
                        ``December 31, 2000''; and
                            (ii) in the matter after the colon, by 
                        striking all that follows ``December 31, 
                        2000.''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in the matter before the colon, by 
                        striking ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting 
                        ``December 31, 2000''; and
                            (ii) in the matter after the colon, by 
                        striking all that follows ``December 31, 
                        2000.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 805(d)(1) of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4045(d)(1)) is amended, in the 
        table in the matter following subparagraph (B), by striking:

      

                                          ``January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2002, inclusive..............................   7.5
                                          After December 31, 2002..............................................................   7''
 

                and inserting the following:

      

                                          ``After December 31, 2000............................................................   7''.
 

    (e) Foreign Service Pension System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 856(a)(2) of the Foreign Service 
        Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4071e(a)(2)) is amended by striking all 
        that follows ``December 31, 2000.'' and inserting the 
        following:

      

                                   ``7.5...........  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

            (2) Volunteer service.--Section 854(c)(1) of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4071c(c)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.
    (f) Civil Service Retirement System.--Notwithstanding section 8334 
(a)(1) or (k)(1) of title 5, United States Code, during the period 
beginning on October 1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, each employing 
agency (other than the United States Postal Service or the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority) shall contribute--
            (1) 7.5 percent of the basic pay of an employee;
            (2) 8 percent of the basic pay of a congressional employee, 
        a law enforcement officer, a member of the Capitol police, a 
        firefighter, or a nuclear materials courier; and
            (3) 8.5 percent of the basic pay of a Member of Congress, a 
        Court of Federal Claims judge, a United States magistrate, a 
        judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed 
        Forces, or a bankruptcy judge,
in lieu of the agency contributions otherwise required under section 
8334(a)(1) of such title 5.
    (g) Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System.--
Notwithstanding section 211(a)(2) of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2021(a)(2)), during the period beginning on 
October 1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, the Central Intelligence 
Agency shall contribute 7.5 percent of the basic pay of an employee 
participating in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System in lieu of the agency contribution otherwise required 
under section 211(a)(2) of such Act.
    (h) Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System.--
Notwithstanding any provision of section 805(a) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4045(a)), during the period beginning on October 
1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, each agency employing a participant 
in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System shall 
contribute to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund--
            (1) 7.5 percent of the basic pay of each participant 
        covered under section 805(a)(1) of such Act participating in 
        the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System; and
            (2) 8 percent of the basic pay of each participant covered 
        under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 805(a) of such Act 
        participating in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
        System,
in lieu of the agency contribution otherwise required under section 
805(a) of such Act.
    (i) The amendments made by this section shall take effect upon the 
close of calendar year 2000, and shall apply thereafter.
    Sec. 641. (a) Section 304 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 434), as previously amended by this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) In addition to any other information required to be 
reported under this section, the principal campaign committee of a 
candidate for the House of Representatives or for the Senate who uses 
any aircraft of the Federal Government for any purpose which includes 
(in whole or in part) carrying out the candidate's campaign for 
election for Federal office (including using an aircraft of the Federal 
Government for transportation to or from a campaign event), shall file 
with the Commission a statement containing the following information:
            ``(A) A description of the aircraft used, including the 
        type or model.
            ``(B) The number of individuals who used the aircraft, 
        including the candidate and those whose use of the aircraft was 
        paid for (in whole or in part) by the committee.
            ``(C) The amount the candidate paid to reimburse the 
        Federal Government for the use of the aircraft, together with 
        the methodology used to determine such amount, in accordance 
        with section 106.3 of title 11, Code of Federal Regulations.
    ``(2) The statements required under this subsection shall be 
included with the reports filed by the principal campaign committee 
under subsection (a)(2), except that any statement with respect to the 
use of any aircraft after the 20th day, but more than 48 hours before 
the election shall be filed in accordance with subsection (a)(6).''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to elections occurring after December 31, 2000.
    Sec. 642. (a) Section 5545b(d) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Notwithstanding section 8114(e)(1), overtime pay for 
        a firefighter subject to this section for hours in a regular 
        tour of duty shall be included in any computation of pay under 
        section 8114.''.
    (b) The amendment in subsection (a) shall be effective as if it had 
been enacted as part of the Federal Firefighters Overtime Pay Reform 
Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2681-519).
    Sec. 643. Section 6323(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) The minimum charge for leave under this subsection is 
        one hour, and additional charges are in multiples thereof.''.
    Sec. 644. Section 616 of the Treasury, Postal Service and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1988, as contained in the Act of 
December 22, 1987 (40 U.S.C. 490b), is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(e)(1) All existing and newly hired workers in any child care 
center located in an executive facility shall undergo a criminal 
history background check as defined in section 231 of the Crime Control 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13041).
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `executive 
facility' means a facility that is owned or leased by an office or 
entity within the executive branch of the Government (including one 
that is owned or leased by the General Services Administration on 
behalf of an office or entity within the judicial branch of the 
Government).
    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to apply with 
respect to a facility owned by or leased on behalf of an office or 
entity within the legislative branch of the Government.''.
    Sec. 645. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to allow the importation into the United States of any product that is 
the growth, product, or manufacture of Iran.
    Sec. 646. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for use of a Federal Internet site to collect information about an 
individual as a consequence of the individual's use of the site.
    Sec. 647. (a)(1) Title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after section 5372a the following:
``Sec. 5372b. Administrative appeals judges
    ``(a) For the purpose of this section--
            ``(1) the term `administrative appeals judge position' 
        means a position the duties of which primarily involve 
        reviewing decisions of administrative law judges appointed 
        under section 3105; and
            ``(2) the term `agency' means an Executive agency, as 
        defined by section 105, but does not include the General 
        Accounting Office.
    ``(b) Subject to such regulations as the Office of Personnel 
Management may prescribe, the head of the agency concerned shall fix 
the rate of basic pay for each administrative appeals judge position 
within such agency which is not classified above GS-15 pursuant to 
section 5108.
    ``(c) A rate of basic pay fixed under this section shall be--
            ``(1) not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for level 
        AL-3 under section 5372; and
            ``(2) not greater than the maximum rate of basic pay for 
        level AL-3 under section 5372.''.
    (2) Section 7323(b)(2)(B)(ii) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``or 5372a'' and inserting ``5372a, or 5372b''.
    (3) The table of sections for chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 5372a 
the following:

``5372b. Administrative appeals judges.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall apply with 
respect to pay for service performed on or after the first day of the 
first applicable pay period beginning on or after--
            (1) the 120th day after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act; or
            (2) if earlier, the effective date of regulations 
        prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management to carry out 
        such amendment.
    Sec. 648. No funds in this Act may be used in contravention of the 
Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.; popularly known as the 
``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 649. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Internal Revenue Service for any activity that is in contravention 
of section 411(b)(1)(H)(i) or section 411(d)(6) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, section 204(b)(1)(G) or 204(b)(1)(H)(i) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or section 4(i)(1)(A) of the 
Age Discrimination in Employment Act.
    Sec. 650. The Office of Personnel Management shall conduct a study 
to develop one or more alternative means for providing Federal 
employees with at least 6 weeks of paid parental leave in connection 
with the birth or adoption of a child (apart from any other paid 
leave). Not later than September 30, 2001, the Office shall submit to 
Congress a report containing its findings and recommendations under 
this section, including projected utilization rates, and views as to 
whether this benefit can be expected to--
            (1) curtail the rate at which Federal employees are being 
        lost to the private sector;
            (2) help the Government in its recruitment and retention 
        efforts generally;
            (3) reduce turnover and replacement costs; and
            (4) contribute to parental involvement during a child's 
        formative years.
    Sec. 651. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the amendments to the Federal Acquisition Regulation 
contained in the proposed rule published by the Federal Acquisition 
Regulatory Council (65 Fed. Reg. 40829) (2000), relating to 
responsibility considerations of Federal contractors and the 
allowability of certain contractor costs.
    Sec. 652. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to administer or enforce part 515 of title 31, Code of Federal 
Regulations (the Cuban Assets Control Regulations) with respect to any 
travel or travel-related transaction.
    (b) The limitation established in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
transactions in relation to any business travel covered by section 
515.560(g) of such part 515.
    Sec. 653. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement any sanction imposed by the United States on private 
commercial sales of agricultural commodities (as defined in section 402 
of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954) or 
medicine or medical supplies (within the meaning of section 1705(c) of 
the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992) to Cuba (other than a sanction imposed 
pursuant to agreement with one or more other countries).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 20, 2000.

            Attest:

                                                 JEFF TRANDAHL,

                                                                 Clerk.

                            By Martha C. Morrison,

                                                          Deputy Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 704

106th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4871

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 21, 2000

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar