[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4156 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]






                                                       Calendar No. 507
110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4156


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 15, 2007

  Received, and pursuant to the order of November 14, 2007, read the 
                 second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the Department of 
 Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and for 
other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I--POLICY ON REDEPLOYMENT AND CONDUCT OF OPERATIONS IN IRAQ

    Sec. 101.  It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the war in Iraq should end as safely and quickly as 
        possible and our troops should be brought home;
            (2) the performance of United States military personnel in 
        Iraq and Afghanistan should be commended, their courage and 
        sacrifice have been exceptional, and when they come home, their 
        service should be recognized appropriately; and
            (3) the primary purpose of funds made available by this Act 
        should be to transition the mission of United States Armed 
        Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not to 
        extend or prolong the war.
    Sec. 102. (a) No person in the custody or under the effective 
control of the United States Government shall be subject to any 
treatment or technique of interrogation not authorized by and listed in 
the United States Army Field Manual FM2-22.3 Human Intelligence 
Collector Operations.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any person in 
the custody or under the effective control of the United States 
Government pursuant to a criminal law or immigration law of the United 
States. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the rights 
under the United States Constitution of any person in the custody or 
under the physical jurisdiction of the United States.
    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations 
promulgated to implement the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at 
New York on December 10, 1984)--
            (1) section 2340A of title 18, United States Code;
            (2) section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 
        112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations 
        prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of 
        title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 22, 
        Code of Federal Regulations; and
            (3) sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
        Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in 
        the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public 
        Law 109-148).
    Sec. 104. (a) The Congress finds that United States military units 
should not enter into combat unless they are fully capable of 
performing their assigned mission. The Congress further finds that this 
is the policy of the Department of Defense.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be used to deploy any unit of the Armed Forces to Iraq 
unless the President has certified in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives at least 15 days in advance of the 
deployment that the unit is ``fully mission capable''.
    (c) For the purposes of subsection (b) the term ``fully mission 
capable'' means capable of performing a unit's assigned mission to the 
prescribed standards under the conditions expected in the theater of 
operation, consistent with the guidelines set forth in the Department 
of Defense's Defense Readiness Reporting System.
    (d) The President, by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives that the deployment to Iraq of a unit that 
is not assessed fully mission capable is required for reasons of 
national security and by submitting along with a certification a report 
in classified and unclassified form detailing the particular reason or 
reasons why the unit's deployment is necessary, may waive the 
limitations prescribed in subsection (b) on a unit-by-unit basis.
    Sec. 105. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act are available 
immediately for obligation to plan and execute a safe and orderly 
redeployment of United States Armed Forces from Iraq.
    (b) Within 30 days after enactment of this Act, the President shall 
commence an immediate and orderly redeployment of United States Armed 
Forces from Iraq, which shall be implemented as part of the 
comprehensive regional stability plan described in subsection (g). The 
President shall endeavor to begin such redeployment with units of the 
Armed Forces that have been deployed in excess of 365 days, except to 
the extent those units are needed to provide for the safe withdrawal of 
other units of the Armed Forces or to protect United States and 
Coalition personnel and infrastructure.
    (c) The reduction in United States Armed Forces required by this 
section shall be implemented in conjunction with a comprehensive 
diplomatic, political and economic strategy that includes sustained 
engagement with Iraq's neighbors and the international community for 
the purpose of working collectively to bring stability to Iraq.
    (d) The goal for the completion of the transition of United States 
Armed Forces to a limited presence and missions as described in 
subsection (e) shall be a date that is not later than December 15, 
2008.
    (e) After the conclusion of the reduction and transition of United 
States Armed Forces to a limited presence as required by this section, 
the Secretary of Defense may deploy or maintain members of the Armed 
Forces in Iraq only for the following missions:
            (1) Protecting United States diplomatic facilities, United 
        States Armed Forces, and American citizens.
            (2) Conducting limited training, equipping, and providing 
        logistical and intelligence support to the Iraqi Security 
        forces.
            (3) Engaging in targeted counterterrorism operations 
        against al-Qaeda, al-Qaeda affiliated groups, and other 
        terrorist organizations in Iraq.
    (f) Not later than February 1, 2008, and every 90 days thereafter, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the following:
            (1) The current plan for and the status of the reduction of 
        United States Armed Forces in Iraq and the transition of the 
        Armed Forces in Iraq to a limited presence whose missions do 
        not exceed the missions specified in subsection (e), including 
        the associated force reductions and adjustments and 
        expectations with respect to timelines and the force levels 
        anticipated to perform those missions.
            (2) A comprehensive current description of efforts to 
        prepare for the reduction and transition of United States Armed 
        Forces in Iraq in accordance with this section and to limit any 
        destabilizing consequences of such reduction and transition, 
        including a description of efforts to work with the United 
        Nations and countries in the region toward that objective.
    (g) Not later than February 15, 2008, the President shall submit to 
the Congress in classified and unclassified form a comprehensive 
regional stability plan for the Middle East, which shall include a 
military, diplomatic, political and economic strategy that provides for 
the national security interests of the United States in the region and 
for the engagement of targeted counterterrorism operations. The plan 
shall include a detailed description of the projected United States 
military force presence in and around the Middle East region for the 5-
year period beginning on October 1, 2008.
    Sec. 106.  The amounts appropriated by this Act are sufficient to 
fully meet the immediate needs of the United States Armed Forces 
deployed to Iraq. Congressional consideration of additional funding 
shall be deferred until the first report required by section 105(f) is 
submitted to the Congress.

                 TITLE II--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$713,700,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$95,624,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$56,050,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$138,037,000.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$27,429,490,000.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$2,071,560,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $2,429,323,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $3,582,560,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,330,540,000, of which not to exceed $333,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, may be used for payments to reimburse key 
cooperating nations, for logistical, military, and other support 
provided to United States military operations, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law: Provided, That such payments may be made in 
such amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State and in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, may determine, in his discretion, based on 
documentation determined by the Secretary of Defense to adequately 
account for the support provided, and such determination is final and 
conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 
days following notification to the appropriate congressional 
committees: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on 
the use of funds provided in this paragraph.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $61,223,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $47,500,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $26,157,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $8,089,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $378,381,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $34,422,000.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', $500,000,000: 
Provided, That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Defense, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
allowing the Commander, Office of Security Cooperation Afghanistan, or 
the Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, to the security forces of Afghanistan, 
including the provision of equipment, supplies, services, training, 
facility and infrastructure repair, renovation, and construction, and 
funding: Provided further, That the authority to provide assistance 
under this heading is in addition to any other authority to provide 
assistance to foreign nations: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense may transfer such funds to appropriations for military 
personnel; operation and maintenance; Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, 
and Civic Aid; procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; 
and defense working capital funds to accomplish the purposes provided 
herein: Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition 
to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That upon a determination that all or part of the 
funds so transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the 
purposes herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
purposes provided herein from any person, foreign government, or 
international organization may be credited to this Fund, and used for 
such purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees in writing upon the receipt 
and upon the transfer of any contribution, delineating the sources and 
amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such 
contributions: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, 
not fewer than 5 days prior to making transfers from this appropriation 
account, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
details of any such transfer: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit a report no later than 30 days after the end of 
each fiscal quarter to the congressional defense committees summarizing 
the details of the transfer of funds from this appropriation.

                       Iraq Security Forces Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'', $500,000,000: Provided, That 
such funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing 
the Commander, Multi-National Security Transition Command--Iraq, or the 
Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence of 
the Secretary of State, to the security forces of Iraq, including the 
provision of equipment, supplies, services, training, facility and 
infrastructure repair, renovation, and construction, and funding, and 
to provide training, reintegration, education and employment programs 
for concerned local citizens, former militia members and detainees and 
former detainees: Provided further, That the authority to provide 
assistance under this heading is in addition to any other authority to 
provide assistance to foreign nations: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer such funds to appropriations for 
military personnel; operation and maintenance; Overseas Humanitarian, 
Disaster, and Civic Aid; procurement; research, development, test and 
evaluation; and defense working capital funds to accomplish the 
purposes provided herein: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority is in addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense: Provided further, That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds so transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation: Provided further, That 
contributions of funds for the purposes provided herein from any 
person, foreign government, or international organization may be 
credited to this Fund, and used for such purposes: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the transfer of any 
contribution, delineating the sources and amounts of the funds received 
and the specific use of such contributions: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 5 days prior to making 
transfers from this appropriation account, notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the details of any such transfer: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report 
no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter to the 
congressional defense committees summarizing the details of the 
transfer of funds from this appropriation.

                           Iraq Freedom Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For ``Iraq Freedom Fund'', $3,168,000,000, to remain available for 
transfer only to support operations in Iraq and to fight terrorism: 
Provided, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National 
Intelligence shall, no fewer than 30 days prior to making transfers 
under this authority, notify the Committees on Appropriations in 
writing of the details of any such transfer made for intelligence 
activities: Provided further, That funds transferred shall be merged 
with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the appropriation or fund to which transferred.

             Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
Defeat Fund'', $1,638,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2010: Provided, That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Defense, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
allowing the Director of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization to investigate, develop and provide equipment, supplies, 
services, training, facilities, personnel and funds to assist United 
States forces in the defeat of improvised explosive devices: Provided 
further, That within 60 days of enactment of this Act, a plan for the 
intended management and use of the Fund is provided to the 
congressional defense committees: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit a report not later than 60 days after the end 
of each fiscal quarter to the congressional defense committees 
providing assessments of the evolving threats, individual service 
requirements to counter the threats, individual service requirements to 
counter the threats, the current strategy for predeployment training of 
members of the Armed Forces on explosive devices, and details on the 
execution of this Fund: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
may transfer funds provided herein to appropriations for operation and 
maintenance; procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; 
and defense working capital funds to accomplish the purpose provided 
herein: Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition 
to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That upon determination that all or part of the funds 
so transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the 
purpose provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, 
not fewer than 5 days prior to making transfers from this 
appropriation, notify the congressional defense committees in writing 
of the details of any such transfer.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$302,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $1,574,217,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2010.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$154,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$1,976,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$25,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$88,281,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$729,232,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$147,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$42,125,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$102,588,000, to remain available until September 30, 2010.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$649,001,000; of which $599,001,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance; and of which $50,000,000 shall be for research, 
development, test and evaluation, to remain available until September 
30, 2009, only for peer reviewed research on traumatic brain injury and 
psychological health, including post-traumatic stress disorder.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201.  Appropriations provided in this Act are available for 
obligation until September 30, 2008, unless otherwise provided in this 
Act.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202. (a) Upon a determination by the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may 
transfer between appropriations up to $4,000,000,000 of the funds made 
available to the Department of Defense in this Act.
    (b) The Secretary shall notify the Congress promptly of each 
transfer made pursuant to the authority in this section.
    (c) The authority provided in this section is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense and is 
subject to the same terms and conditions as the authority provided in 
section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2008, 
except for the fourth proviso.
    Sec. 203.  Funds appropriated in this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in or pursuant to this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 204.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
finance programs or activities denied by the Congress in fiscal years 
2007 or 2008 appropriations to the Department of Defense or to initiate 
a procurement or research, development, test and evaluation new start 
program unless such program or project must be undertaken immediately 
in the interest of national security and after written prior 
notification to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 205. (a) From funds made available for operation and 
maintenance in this Act to the Department of Defense, not to exceed 
$500,000,000 may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
to fund the Commander's Emergency Response Program, for the purpose of 
enabling military commanders in Iraq and Afghanistan to respond to 
urgent humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within their 
areas of responsibility by carrying out programs that will immediately 
assist the Iraqi and Afghan people.
    (b) Not later than 15 days after the end of each fiscal year 
quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report regarding the source of funds and the 
allocation and use of funds during that quarter that were made 
available pursuant to the authority provided in this section or under 
any other provision of law for the purposes of the programs under 
subsection (a).
    Sec. 206. (a) During fiscal year 2008, funds available in this Act 
to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance may be used, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, to provide supplies, 
services, transportation, including airlift and sealift, and other 
logistical support to Coalition forces supporting military and 
stability operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly reports to the 
congressional defense committees regarding support provided under this 
section.
    Sec. 207. (a) Supervision and administration costs associated with 
a construction project funded with appropriations available for 
operation and maintenance, Afghanistan Security Forces Fund, or Iraq 
Security Forces Fund, and executed in direct support of the Global War 
on Terror only in Iraq and Afghanistan, may be obligated at the time a 
construction contract is awarded.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``supervision and 
administration costs'' includes all in-house Government costs.
    Sec. 208.  Each amount appropriated or otherwise provided in this 
Act is designated as an emergency requirement and necessary to meet 
emergency needs pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of section 204 of 
S. Con. Res. 21 (110th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2008.
    Sec. 209. (a) Not later than January 15, 2008 and every 90 days 
thereafter through the end of fiscal year 2008, the Secretary of 
Defense shall set forth in a report to the Congress a comprehensive set 
of performance indicators and measures for progress toward military and 
political stability in Iraq.
    (b) The report shall include performance standards and goals for 
security, economic, and security force training objectives in Iraq, 
together with a notional timetable for achieving these goals.
    (c) The report shall include, at a minimum, the following specific 
provisions:
            (1) With respect to stability and security in Iraq, the 
        following:
                    (A) Key measures of political stability, including 
                the important political milestones that must be 
                achieved over the next several years.
                    (B) The primary indicators of a stable security 
                environment in Iraq, such as number of engagements per 
                day, numbers of trained Iraqi forces, trends relating 
                to numbers and types of ethnic and religious-based 
                hostile encounters, and progress made in the transition 
                to Provincial Iraqi Control (PIC).
                    (C) An assessment of the estimated strength of the 
                insurgency in Iraq and the extent to which it is 
                composed of non-Iraqi fighters.
                    (D) A description of all militias operating in 
                Iraq, including the number, size, equipment strength, 
                military effectiveness, sources of support, legal 
                status, and efforts to disarm or reintegrate each 
                militia.
                    (E) Key indicators of economic activity that should 
                be considered the most important for determining the 
                prospects of stability in Iraq, including--
                            (i) unemployment levels;
                            (ii) electricity, water, and oil production 
                        rates; and
                            (iii) hunger and poverty levels.
                    (F) The criteria the Administration will use to 
                determine when it is safe to begin withdrawing United 
                States forces from Iraq.
            (2) With respect to the training and performance of 
        security forces in Iraq, the following:
                    (A) The training provided Iraqi military and other 
                Ministry of Defense forces and the equipment used by 
                such forces.
                    (B) Key criteria for assessing the capabilities and 
                readiness of the Iraqi military and other Ministry of 
                Defense forces, goals for achieving certain capability 
                and readiness levels (as well as for recruiting, 
                training, and equipping these forces), and the 
                milestones and notional timetable for achieving these 
                goals.
                    (C) The operational readiness status of the Iraqi 
                military forces, including the type, number, size, and 
                organizational structure of Iraqi battalions that are--
                            (i) capable of conducting counterinsurgency 
                        operations independently, without any support 
                        from Coalition forces;
                            (ii) capable of conducting 
                        counterinsurgency operations with the support 
                        of United States or Coalition forces; or
                            (iii) not ready to conduct 
                        counterinsurgency operations.
                    (D) The amount and type of support provided by 
                Coalition forces to the Iraqi Security forces at each 
                level of operational readiness.
                    (E) The number of Iraqi battalions in the Iraqi 
                Army currently conducting operations and the type of 
                operations being conducted.
                    (F) The rates of absenteeism in the Iraqi military 
                forces and the extent to which insurgents have 
                infiltrated such forces.
                    (G) The training provided Iraqi police and other 
                Ministry of Interior forces and the equipment used by 
                such forces.
                    (H) Key criteria for assessing the capabilities and 
                readiness of the Iraqi police and other Ministry of 
                Interior forces, goals for achieving certain capability 
                and readiness levels (as well as for recruiting, 
                training, and equipping), and the milestones and 
                notional timetable for achieving these goals, 
                including--
                            (i) the number of police recruits that have 
                        received classroom training and the duration of 
                        such instruction;
                            (ii) the number of veteran police officers 
                        who have received classroom instruction and the 
                        duration of such instruction;
                            (iii) the number of police candidates 
                        screened by the Iraqi Police Screening Service, 
                        the number of candidates derived from other 
                        entry procedures, and the success rates of 
                        those groups of candidates;
                            (iv) the number of Iraqi police forces who 
                        have received field training by international 
                        police trainers and the duration of such 
                        instruction;
                            (v) attrition rates and measures of 
                        absenteeism and infiltration by insurgents; and
                            (vi) the level and effectiveness of the 
                        Iraqi Police and other Ministry of Interior 
                        forces in provinces where the United States has 
                        formally transferred responsibility for the 
                        security of the province to the Iraqi Security 
                        forces under the Provincial Iraqi Control (PIC) 
                        process.
                    (I) The estimated total number of Iraqi battalions 
                needed for the Iraqi Security forces to perform duties 
                now being undertaken by Coalition forces, including 
                defending the borders of Iraq and providing adequate 
                levels of law and order throughout Iraq.
                    (J) The effectiveness of the Iraqi military and 
                police officer cadres and the chain of command.
                    (K) The number of United States and Coalition 
                advisors needed to support the Iraqi Security forces 
                and associated ministries.
                    (L) An assessment, in a classified annex if 
                necessary, of United States military requirements, 
                including planned force rotations, through the end of 
                calendar year 2008.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or expended by 
the United States Government for a purpose as follows:
            (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Iraq.
            (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
        of Iraq.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended to provide award 
fees to any defense contractor contrary to the provisions of section 
814 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364).
    Sec. 212.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance in 
this Act may, upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such 
action is necessary to meet the operational requirements of a Commander 
of Combatant Command engaged in contingency operations overseas, be 
used to purchase items having an investment item cost of not more than 
$500,000.
    Sec. 213.  Section 3303(c) of Public Law 110-28 shall apply to 
funds appropriated in this Act.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Orderly and Responsible Iraq 
Redeployment Appropriations Act, 2008''.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 14, 2007.

            Attest:

                                            LORRAINE C. MILLER,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 507

110th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 4156

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the Department of 
 Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           November 15, 2007

  Received, and pursuant to the order of November 14, 2007, read the 
                 second time and placed on the calendar