[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4577 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4577

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
             the twenty-fourth day of January, two thousand


                                 An Act


 
Making consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
                    30, 2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

    Section 1. (a) The provisions of the following bills of the 106th 
Congress are hereby enacted into law:
        (1) H.R. 5656, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (2) H.R. 5657, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (3) H.R. 5658, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (4) H.R. 5666, as introduced on December 15, 2000, except that 
    the text of H.R. 5666, as so enacted, shall not include section 123 
    (relating to the enactment of H.R. 4904).
        (5) H.R. 5660, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (6) H.R. 5661, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (7) H.R. 5662, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (8) H.R. 5663, as introduced on December 14, 2000.
        (9) H.R. 5667, as introduced on December 15, 2000.
    (b) In publishing this Act in slip form and in the United States 
Statutes at Large pursuant to section 112 of title 1, United States 
Code, the Archivist of the United States shall include after the date 
of approval at the end appendixes setting forth the texts of the bills 
referred to in subsection (a) of this section and the text of any other 
bill enacted into law by reference by reason of the enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 2. (a) Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budget Scorekeeping 
Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory statement of the 
committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 105-217, 
legislation enacted in section 505 of the Department of Transportation 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, section 312 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001, titles X and XI of H.R. 
5548 (106th Congress) as enacted by H.R. 4942 (106th Congress), 
division B of H.R. 5666 (106th Congress) as enacted by this Act, and 
sections 1(a)(5) through 1(a)(9) of this Act that would have been 
estimated by the Office of Management and Budget as changing direct 
spending or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 were it included in an Act other 
than an appropriations Act shall be treated as direct spending or 
receipts legislation, as appropriate, under section 252 of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (b) In preparing the final sequestration report required by section 
254(f)(3) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 for fiscal year 2001, in addition to the information required by 
that section, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
change any balance of direct spending
and receipts legislation for fiscal year 2001 under section 252 of that 
Act to zero.
    (c) This Act may be cited as the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2001''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.