[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3662 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 495
104th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3662

                          [Report No. 104-319]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 21, 1996

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             July 16, 1996

                Reported by Mr. Gorton, with amendments
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
<DELETED>$566,514,000 </DELETED>$578,692,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which <DELETED>$2,000,000 </DELETED>$2,010,000 shall be 
available for assessment of the mineral potential of public lands in 
Alaska pursuant to section 1010 of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150); 
and of which $3,000,000 shall be derived from the special receipt 
account established by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965, as 
amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)); and of which $1,000,000 shall be 
available in fiscal year 1997 subject to a match by at least an equal 
amount by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, to such Foundation 
for challenge cost share projects supporting fish and wildlife 
conservation affecting Bureau lands; in addition, $27,300,000 for 
Mining Law Administration program operations, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited 
to this appropriation from annual mining claim fees so as to result in 
a final appropriation estimated at not more than <DELETED>$566,514,000 
</DELETED>$578,692,000; and in addition, not to exceed $5,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, from annual mining claim fees; which 
shall be credited to this account for the costs of administering the 
mining claim fee program, and $2,000,000 from communication site rental 
fees established by the Bureau for the cost of administering 
communication site activities: Provided, That appropriations herein 
made shall not be available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, 
wild horses and burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors: 
Provided further, That in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, all fees, 
excluding mining claim fees, in excess of the fiscal year 1996 
collections established by the Secretary of the Interior under the 
authority of 43 U.S.C. 1734 for processing, recording, or documenting 
authorizations to use public lands or public land natural resources 
(including cultural, historical, and mineral) and for providing 
specific services to public land users, and which are not presently 
being covered into any Bureau of Land Management appropriation 
accounts, and not otherwise dedicated by law for a specific 
distribution, shall be made immediately available for program 
operations in this account and remain available until expended.

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for fire use and management, fire 
preparedness, suppression operations, and emergency rehabilitation by 
the Department of the Interior, <DELETED>$247,924,000 
</DELETED>$264,609,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $5,025,000 shall be for the renovation or construction of 
fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are also available for 
repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from which funds 
were previously transferred for such purposes: Provided further, That 
persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence 
and lodging without costs from funds available from this appropriation: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances of amounts previously 
appropriated to the ``Fire Protection'' and ``Emergency Department of 
the Interior Firefighting Fund'' may be transferred to this 
appropriation.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, including 
associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, pollutants, or 
contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), 
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the Department pursuant to sections 107 or 
113(f) of such Act, shall be credited to this account to be available 
until expended without further appropriation: Provided further, That 
such sums recovered from or paid by any party are not limited to 
monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other personal or 
real property, which may be retained, liquidated, or otherwise disposed 
of by the Secretary and which shall be credited to this account.

                              construction

    For construction of buildings, recreation facilities, roads, 
trails, and appurtenant facilities, <DELETED>$3,103,000 
</DELETED>$4,333,000, to remain available until expended.

                       payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 6901-07), <DELETED>$113,500,000 
</DELETED>$115,000,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579 including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, <DELETED>$10,000,000 
</DELETED>$14,060,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended.

                   oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
<DELETED>$98,365,000 </DELETED>$102,656,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That 25 per centum of the aggregate of all receipts 
during the current fiscal year from the revested Oregon and California 
Railroad grant lands is hereby made a charge against the Oregon and 
California land-grant fund and shall be transferred to the General Fund 
in the Treasury in accordance with the second paragraph of subsection 
(b) of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 876).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 per 
centum of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under 
sections 3 and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and 
the amount designated for range improvements from grazing fees and 
mineral leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the 
Department of the Interior pursuant to law, but not less than 
$9,113,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $600,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579, as amended, and Public Law 93-153, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 
U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant 
to that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action: Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau; 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities 
authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing 
either in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator 
is capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

    For expenses necessary for scientific and economic studies, 
conservation, management, investigations, protection, and utilization 
of fishery and wildlife resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, 
and for the performance of other authorized functions related to such 
resources; for the general administration of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service; for maintenance of the herd of long-horned cattle on 
the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge; and not less than $1,000,000 for 
high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which 
shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by 
the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended, <DELETED>$520,519,000 
</DELETED>$529,527,000, to remain available until September 30, 1998, 
of which $11,557,000 shall remain available until expended for 
operation and maintenance of fishery mitigation facilities constructed 
by the Corps of Engineers under the Lower Snake River Compensation 
Plan, authorized by the Water Resources Development Act of 1976, to 
compensate for loss of fishery resources from water development 
projects on the Lower Snake River, of which not more than $500,000 
shall be used only to prepare and publish withdrawal notices under 
section 4(b)(6) (A)(i)(IV) and (B)(ii) of the Endangered Species Act 
and to prepare and publish proposed or final rules to remove species 
from either of the lists published under section 4(c) of the Endangered 
Species Act or to change the status of species from endangered to 
threatened in accordance with the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) 
of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act, and of which 
<DELETED>$1,000,000 </DELETED>not to exceed $1,500,000 shall be 
provided to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for 
implementation of the Natural Communities Conservation Plan, and shall 
be available only to the extent matched by at least an equal amount 
from the Foundation and shall remain available until 
expended<DELETED>:-Provided, That pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701, the 
Secretary shall charge reasonable fees for the full costs of providing 
training by the National Education and Training Center, to be credited 
to this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, of which not to exceed 
$2,000,000 shall be available for the direct costs of providing such 
training</DELETED>: Provided, That hereafter, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
9701, the Secretary shall charge reasonable fees for the full costs of 
providing training by the National Education and Training Center, to be 
credited to this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, for the 
direct costs of providing such training<DELETED>:-Provided further, 
That not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds provided herein may be used 
for contaminant sample analysis</DELETED>.

                              construction

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, 
and utilization of fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition 
of lands and interests therein; <DELETED>$38,298,000 
</DELETED>$45,306,000, to remain available until expended.

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-380), and Public Law 101-337; $4,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, <DELETED>$30,000,000 
</DELETED>$50,802,000, of which $3,000,000 is authorized to be 
appropriated and shall be used to establish the Clarks River National 
Wildlife Refuge in Kentucky, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended, 
<DELETED>$13,085,000 (increased by $1,000,000) </DELETED>$14,085,000, 
for grants to States, to be derived from the Cooperative Endangered 
Species Conservation Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $10,779,000.

                         rewards and operations

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the African 
Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 
4241-4245, and 1538), <DELETED>$1,000,000 </DELETED>$600,000, to remain 
available until expended.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, 
<DELETED>$7,750,000 </DELETED>$10,750,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 rhinoceros and tiger conservation fund

    For deposit to the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund, 
<DELETED>$400,000 </DELETED>$200,000, to remain available until 
expended, to carry out the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 
1994 (Public Law 103-391).

              wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For deposit to the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund, 
$800,000, to remain available until expended<DELETED>, for carrying out 
the Partnerships for Wildlife Act only to the extent such funds are 
matched as provided in section 7105 of said Act</DELETED>.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 83 
passenger motor vehicles of which 73 are for replacement only 
(including 43 for police-type use); not to exceed $400,000 for payment, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, for information, rewards, or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Service, and 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on his certificate; repair of damage to public roads within and 
adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of the Service; 
options for the purchase of land at not to exceed $1 for each option; 
facilities incident to such public recreational uses on conservation 
areas as are consistent with their primary purpose; and the maintenance 
and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities under the 
jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United States has title, 
and which are utilized pursuant to law in connection with management 
and investigation of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service may, under cooperative cost 
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share at least one-half the cost 
of printing either in cash or services and the Service determines the 
cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality standards: Provided 
further, That the Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements 
for existing aircraft: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior may not spend any of 
the funds appropriated in this Act for the purchase of lands or 
interests in lands to be used in the establishment of any new unit of 
the National Wildlife Refuge System unless the purchase is approved in 
advance by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in 
compliance with the reprogramming procedures contained in House Report 
103-551: Provided further, That section 201 of the Emergency Wetlands 
Resources Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 3911) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking ``distributed'' 
        and inserting ``used''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) 
                of subparagraph (A) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), 
                respectively;
                    (B) by striking ``shall be distributed as 
                follows:'' and all that follows through ``such amount--
                '' and inserting ``shall be used by the Secretary--''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (b).

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not to exceed $1,593,000 for 
the Volunteers-in-Parks program, and not less than $1,000,000 for high 
priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which shall 
be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 1706, <DELETED>$1,135,139,000 </DELETED>$1,156,784,000, without 
regard to 16 U.S.C. 451, of which <DELETED>$12,800,000 
</DELETED>$4,000,000 for research, planning and interagency 
coordination in support of land acquisition for Everglades restoration 
shall remain available until expended, and of which not to exceed 
$72,000,000, to remain available until expended, is to be derived from 
the special fee account established pursuant to title V, section 5201, 
of Public Law 100-203.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, environmental compliance and review, 
international park affairs, statutory or contractual aid for other 
activities, and grant administration, not otherwise provided for, 
<DELETED>$36,476,000 </DELETED>$39,476,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the Historic Preservation 
Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), <DELETED>$36,212,000 
</DELETED>$36,612,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation 
Fund, to remain available until September 30, 1998.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities including the modifications authorized by section 104 of the 
Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, 
<DELETED>$119,745,000 </DELETED>$165,418,000, to remain available until 
expended<DELETED>:-Provided, That funds provided under this head, 
derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, established by the 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), may be 
available until expended to render sites safe for visitors and for 
building stabilization</DELETED>: Provided, That funds previously 
provided under this heading that had been made available to the City of 
Hot Springs, Arkansas, to be used for a flood protection feasibility 
study, are now made available to the City of Hot Springs for the 
rehabilitation of the Federally-constructed Hot Springs Creek Arch, 
including the portion within Hot Springs National Park.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 1997 by 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the National Park Service, <DELETED>$30,000,000 </DELETED>$48,415,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain 
available until expended, of which $1,000,000 is to administer the 
State assistance program: Provided, That any funds made available for 
the purpose of acquisition of the Elwha and Glines dams shall be used 
solely for acquisition, and shall not be expended until the full 
purchase amount has been appropriated by the Congress; Provided 
further, That of the funds provided herein, $2,500,000 is available for 
acquisition of the Sterling Forest, subject to authorization.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 404 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
287 shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 320 for 
police-type use, 13 buses, and 6 ambulances: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process 
any grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 
U.S.C. 1913<DELETED>:-Provided further, That of the funds provided to 
the National Park Service in this or any other Act not more than 
$1,700,000 is to be used for the Office of the Director, not more than 
$2,000,000 is to be used for the Office of Public Affairs, and not more 
than $951,000 is to be used for the Office of Congressional 
Affairs</DELETED>: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to implement an 
agreement for the redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island 
until such agreement has been submitted to the Congress and shall not 
be implemented prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not 
including any day in which either House of Congress is not in session 
because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full and 
comprehensive report on the development of the southern end of Ellis 
Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon in support of 
the proposed project.
    None of the funds in this Act may be spent by the National Park 
Service for activities taken in direct response to the United Nations 
Biodiversity Convention.
    The National Park Service may in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter 
enter into cooperative agreements that involve the transfer of National 
Park Service appropriated funds to State, local and tribal governments, 
other public entities, educational institutions, and private nonprofit 
organizations for the public purpose of carrying out National Park 
Service programs pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 6305 to carry out public 
purposes of National Park Service programs.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, and the mineral and water resources of the United 
States, its Territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized 
by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332 and 1340; classify lands as to their mineral and 
water resources; give engineering supervision to power permittees and 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; administer the minerals 
exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and publish and disseminate data 
relative to the foregoing activities; and to conduct inquiries into the 
economic conditions affecting mining and materials processing 
industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and related 
purposes as authorized by law and to publish and disseminate data; 
<DELETED>$730,163,000 </DELETED>$737,040,000, of which 
<DELETED>$62,130,000 </DELETED>$65,809,000 shall be available only for 
cooperation with States or municipalities for water resources 
investigations; and of which $16,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for conducting inquiries into the economic conditions 
affecting mining and materials processing industries; and of which 
<DELETED>$137,000,000 </DELETED>$137,750,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 1998 for the biological research activity and the 
operation of the Cooperative Research Units<DELETED>; and of which 
$16,000,000 shall remain available until expended for conducting 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries</DELETED>: Provided, That none of these funds 
provided for the biological research activity shall be used to conduct 
new surveys on private property, unless specifically authorized in 
writing by the property owner: Provided further, That beginning in 
fiscal year 1998 and once every five years thereafter, the National 
Academy of Sciences shall review and report on the biological research 
activity of the Survey: Provided further, That no part of this 
appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the cost of 
topographic mapping or water resources data collection and 
investigations carried on in cooperation with States and 
municipalities.

                       administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 53 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which 48 are for replacement only; reimbursement to the 
General Services Administration for security guard services; 
contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the making 
of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is administratively 
determined that such procedures are in the public interest; 
construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations and observation 
wells; expenses of the United States National Committee on Geology; and 
payment of compensation and expenses of persons on the rolls of the 
Survey duly appointed to represent the United States in the negotiation 
and administration of interstate compacts: Provided, That activities 
funded by appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the 
use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in 31 
U.S.C. 6302, et seq.

                      Minerals Management Service

                royalty and offshore minerals management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of 
royalties, as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations 
applicable to oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses 
and operating contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative 
agreements; including the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; <DELETED>$182,555,000 
</DELETED>$159,555,000, of which not less than <DELETED>$74,063,000 
</DELETED>$70,063,000 shall be available for royalty management 
activities; and an amount not to exceed <DELETED>$15,400,000 
</DELETED>$41,000,000 for the Technical Information Management System 
and <DELETED>Related Activities </DELETED>activities of the Outer 
Continental Shelf (OCS) Lands Activity, to be credited to this 
appropriation and to remain available until expended, from additions to 
receipts resulting from increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, 
from rate increases to fee collections for OCS administrative 
activities performed by the Minerals Management Service over and above 
the rates in effect on September 30, 1993, and from additional fees for 
OCS administrative activities established after September 30, 1993: 
Provided, That $1,500,000 for computer acquisitions shall remain 
available until September 30, 1998: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be available for the payment of 
interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721 (b) and (d): Provided 
further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable 
expenses related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup 
activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $15,000 under this head shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Director of the Minerals Management Service concurred with the claimed 
refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or Tribes, or to 
correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,440,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

                            Bureau of Mines

                           mines and minerals

    For expenses necessary for, and incidental to, the closure of the 
United States Bureau of Mines, including payments for workers 
compensation and unemployment compensation for former employees of the 
United States Bureau of Mines, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 10 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; <DELETED>$94,272,000 
</DELETED>$94,172,000, and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, an 
additional amount shall be credited to this account, to remain 
available until expended, from performance bond forfeitures in fiscal 
year 1997: Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to 
regulations, may utilize directly or through grants to States, moneys 
collected in fiscal year 1997 for civil penalties assessed under 
section 518 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 
(30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim lands adversely affected by coal mining 
practices after August 3, 1977, to remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem 
expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as amended, 
including the purchase of not more than 10 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, <DELETED>$175,887,000 </DELETED>$179,085,000, to be 
derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended; of which $4,000,000 shall be for 
supplemental grants to States for the reclamation of abandoned sites 
with acid mine rock drainage from coal mines through the Appalachian 
Clean Streams Initiative: Provided, That grants to minimum program 
States will be $1,500,000 per State in fiscal year 1997: Provided 
further, That of the funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 may be 
used for the emergency program authorized by section 410 of Public Law 
95-87, as amended, of which no more than 25 per centum shall be used 
for emergency reclamation projects in any one State and funds for 
federally-administered emergency reclamation projects under this 
proviso shall not exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year 
unobligated funds appropriated for the emergency reclamation program 
shall not be subject to the 25 per centum limitation per State and may 
be used without fiscal year limitation for emergency projects: Provided 
further, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the 
Interior is authorized to use up to 20 per centum from the recovery of 
the delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts: Provided further, That funds made 
available to States under title IV of Public Law 95-87 may be used, at 
their discretion, for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines: Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For operation of Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants including expenses 
necessary to provide education and welfare services for Indians, either 
directly or in cooperation with States and other organizations, 
including payment of care, tuition, assistance, and other expenses of 
Indians in boarding homes, or institutions, or schools; grants and 
other assistance to needy Indians; maintenance of law and order; 
management, development, improvement, and protection of resources and 
appurtenant facilities under the jurisdiction of the Bureau, including 
payment of irrigation assessments and charges; acquisition of water 
rights; advances for Indian industrial and business enterprises; 
operation of Indian arts and crafts shops and museums; development of 
Indian arts and crafts, as authorized by law; for the general 
administration of the Bureau, including such expenses in field offices; 
maintaining of Indian reservation roads as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101; 
and construction, repair, and improvement of Indian housing, 
<DELETED>$1,381,623,000 </DELETED>$1,413,606,000, of which not to 
exceed <DELETED>$90,829,000 </DELETED>$91,379,000 shall be for payments 
to tribes and tribal organizations for contract support costs 
associated with ongoing contracts or grants or compacts entered into 
with the Bureau prior to fiscal year 1997, as authorized by the Indian 
Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, and up to $5,000,000 shall 
be for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, which shall be available for 
the transitional cost of initial or expanded tribal contracts, grants, 
compacts, or cooperative agreements with the Bureau under such Act; and 
of which not to exceed <DELETED>$339,709,000 </DELETED>$344,711,000 for 
school operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education 
programs shall become available on July 1, 1997, and shall remain 
available until September 30, 1998; and of which not to exceed 
<DELETED>$55,838,000 </DELETED>$53,805,000 for higher education 
scholarships, adult vocational training, and assistance to public 
schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall remain available until 
September 30, 1998; and of which not to exceed <DELETED>$55,603,000 
</DELETED>$54,973,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation support, self-
governance grants, the Indian Self-Determination Fund, and the Navajo-
Hopi Settlement Program: Provided, That tribes and tribal contractors 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of 
ongoing contracts, grants or compact agreements: Provided further, That 
funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
contracts or grants obligated during fiscal year 1997, as authorized by 
the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, or grants authorized by the 
Indian Education Amendments of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2001 and 2008A) shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee: Provided 
further, That to provide funding uniformity within a Self-Governance 
Compact, any funds provided in this Act with availability for more than 
one year may be reprogrammed to one year availability but shall remain 
available within the Compact until expended: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, Indian tribal governments 
may, by appropriate changes in eligibility criteria or by other means, 
change eligibility for general assistance or change the amount of 
general assistance payments for individuals within the service area of 
such tribe who are otherwise deemed eligible for general assistance 
payments so long as such changes are applied in a consistent manner to 
individuals similarly situated: Provided further, That any savings 
realized by such changes shall be available for use in meeting other 
priorities of the tribes: Provided further, That any net increase in 
costs to the Federal Government which result solely from tribally 
increased payment levels for general assistance shall be met 
exclusively from funds available to the tribe from within its tribal 
priority allocation: Provided further, That any forestry funds 
allocated to a tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 1997, 
may be transferred during fiscal year 1998 to an Indian forest land 
assistance account established for the benefit of such tribe within the 
tribe's trust fund account: Provided further, That any such unobligated 
balances not so transferred shall expire on September 30, 1998: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
funds available to the Bureau, other than the amounts provided herein 
for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be 
available to support the operation of any elementary or secondary 
school in the State of Alaska in fiscal year 1997: Provided further, 
That funds made available in this or any other Act for expenditure 
through September 30, 1998 for schools funded by the Bureau shall be 
available only to the schools in the Bureau school system as of 
September 1, 1995: Provided further, That no funds available to the 
Bureau shall be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau school system as 
of October 1, 1995: Provided further, That in fiscal year 1997 and 
thereafter, notwithstanding the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 2012(h)(1) (A) 
and (B), upon the recommendation of either (i) a local school board and 
school supervisor for an education position in a Bureau of Indian 
Affairs operated school, or (ii) an Agency school board and education 
line officer for an Agency education position, the Secretary shall 
establish adjustments to the rates of basic compensation or annual 
salary rates established under 25 U.S.C. 2012(h)(1) (A) and (B) for 
education positions at the school or the Agency, at a level not less 
than that for comparable positions in the nearest public school 
district, and the adjustment shall be deemed to be a change to basic 
pay and shall not be subject to collective bargaining: Provided 
further, That any reduction to rates of basic compensation or annual 
salary rates below the rates established under 25 U.S.C. 2012(h)(1) (A) 
and (B) shall apply only to educators appointed after June 30, 1997, 
and shall not affect the right of an individual employed on June 30, 
1997, in an education position, to receive the compensation attached to 
such position under 25 U.S.C. 2012(h)(1) (A) and (B) so long as the 
individual remains in the same position at the same school: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 25 U.S.C. 2012(h)(1)(B), when the rates 
of basic compensation for teachers and counselors at Bureau-operated 
schools are established at the rates of basic compensation applicable 
to comparable positions in overseas schools under the Defense 
Department Overseas Teachers Pay and Personnel Practices Act, such 
rates shall become effective with the start of the next academic year 
following the issuance of the Department of Defense salary schedule and 
shall not be effected retroactively.

                              construction

    For construction, major repair, and improvement of irrigation and 
power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands, and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, 
and for construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant 
to Public Law 87-483, <DELETED>$85,831,000 </DELETED>$93,933,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided further, That 
not to exceed 6 per centum of contract authority available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau: Provided 
further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams program 
pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a non-reimbursable 
basis: Provided further, That for fiscal year 1997, in implementing new 
construction or facilities improvement and repair project grants in 
excess of $100,000 that are provided to tribally controlled grant 
schools under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost 
Principles for Assistance Programs contained in 43 CFR part 12 as the 
regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such grants shall not 
be subject to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the Secretary and the grantee 
shall negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work to be 
performed: Provided further, That in considering applications, the 
Secretary shall consider whether the Indian tribe or tribal 
organization would be deficient in assuring that the construction 
projects conform to applicable building standards and codes and 
Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as required by 25 
U.S.C. 2005(a), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities: Provided further, That if the Secretary declines an 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 
25 U.S.C. 2505(f): Provided further, That any disputes between the 
Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant shall be subject to the 
disputes provision in 25 U.S.C. 2508(e).

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, <DELETED>$65,241,000 
</DELETED>$69,241,000, to remain available until expended; of which 
<DELETED>$56,400,000 </DELETED>$68,400,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 101-618, 102-374, 102-575, and for 
implementation of other enacted water rights settlements, including not 
to exceed $8,000,000, which shall be for the Federal share of the 
Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina Claims Settlement, as authorized 
by section 5(a) of Public Law 103-116; and of which $841,000 shall be 
available pursuant to Public Laws 98-500, 99-264, and 100-580.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $4,500,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $34,615,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan programs, $500,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
the Technical Assistance of Indian Enterprises account, the Indian 
Direct Loan Program account, and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program 
account) shall be available for expenses of exhibits, and purchase of 
not to exceed 229 passenger motor vehicles, of which not to exceed 187 
shall be for replacement only.

                          Departmental Offices

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, <DELETED>$65,088,000 
</DELETED>$65,388,000, of which (1) <DELETED>$61,239,000 
</DELETED>$61,539,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, 
insular management controls, and brown tree snake control and research; 
grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and 
expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the 
Government of American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, 
for construction and support of governmental functions; grants to the 
Government of the Virgin Islands as authorized by law; grants to the 
Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and grants to the Government 
of the Northern Mariana Islands as authorized by law (Public Law 94-
241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $3,849,000 shall be available for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs: Provided, That all 
financial transactions of the territorial and local governments herein 
provided for, including such transactions of all agencies or 
instrumentalities established or utilized by such governments, may be 
audited by the General Accounting Office, at its discretion, in 
accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be 
provided according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special 
Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance for the 
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 99-396, or any 
subsequent legislation related to Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands grant funding: Provided further, That section 703(a) of Public 
Law 94-241, as amended, is hereby amended by striking ``of the 
Government of the Northern Mariana Islands'': Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided for technical assistance, sufficient funding shall 
be made available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided 
further, That the funds for the program of operations and maintenance 
improvement are appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and 
maintenance improvement of capital infrastructure in American Samoa, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 
and the Federated States of Micronesia through assessments of long-
range operations maintenance needs, improved capability of local 
operations and maintenance institutions and agencies (including 
management and vocational education training), and project-specific 
maintenance (with territorial participation and cost sharing to be 
determined by the Secretary based on the individual territory's 
commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): Provided 
further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under this head 
in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal 
matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided 
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                      compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compacts of 
Free Association, and for economic assistance and necessary expenses 
for the Republic of Palau as provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 
232, and 233 of the Compact of Free Association, <DELETED>$23,638,000 
</DELETED>$23,438,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by Public Law 99-239 and Public Law 99-658.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, <DELETED>$53,691,000 </DELETED>$58,991,000, of which not to 
exceed $7,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, 
<DELETED>$35,208,000 </DELETED>$35,443,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$24,439,000, together with any funds or property transferred to the 
Office of Inspector General through forfeiture proceedings or from the 
Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the 
Treasury Assets Forfeiture Fund, that represent an equitable share from 
the forfeiture of property in investigations in which the Office of 
Inspector General participated, with such transferred funds to remain 
available until expended.

                   National Indian Gaming Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Indian Gaming Commission, 
pursuant to Public Law 100-497, $1,000,000.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For operation of trust programs for Indians by direct expenditure, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
<DELETED>$19,126,000 </DELETED>$36,338,000, to remain available until 
expended for trust funds management: Provided, That funds made 
available to tribes and tribal organizations through contracts or 
grants obligated during fiscal year 1997, as authorized by the Indian 
Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), shall remain 
available until expended by the contractor or grantee: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute 
of limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, including any 
claim in litigation pending on the date of this Act, concerning losses 
to or mismanagement of trust funds, until the affected tribe or 
individual Indian has been furnished with an accounting of such funds 
from which the beneficiary can determine whether there has been a loss: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances previously made available 
(1) to liquidate obligations owed tribal and individual Indian payees 
of any checks canceled pursuant to section 1003 of the Competitive 
Equality Banking Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-86; 31 U.S.C. 3334(b)), 
(2) to restore Individual Indian Monies trust funds, Indian Irrigation 
Systems, and Indian Power Systems accounts amounts invested in credit 
unions or defaulted savings and loan associations and which where not 
Federally insured, including any interest on these amounts that may 
have been earned, but was not because of the default, and (3) to 
reimburse Indian trust fund account holders for losses to their 
respective accounts where the claim for said loss has been reduced to a 
judgement or settlement agreement approved by the Department of 
Justice, under the heading ``Indian Land and Water Claim Settlements 
and Miscellaneous Payments to Indians'', Bureau of Indian Affairs in 
fiscal years 1995 and 1996, are hereby transferred to and merged with 
this appropriation and may only be used for the operation of trust 
programs, in accordance with this appropriation.

                       Administrative Provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 15 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in ``Departmental Management'', ``Office 
of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; 
for contingency planning subsequent to actual oilspills; response and 
natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual 
oilspills; for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 
1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation 
projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, 
from any no year funds available to the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not 
carrying out the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: 
Provided, That appropriations made in this title for fire suppression 
purposes shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
during the preceding fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other 
Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other 
equipment in connection with their use for fire suppression purposes, 
such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently available 
at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, That for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities, no funds shall be 
made available under this authority until funds appropriated to 
``Wildland Fire Management'' shall have been exhausted: Provided 
further, That all funds used pursuant to this section are hereby 
designated by Congress to be ``emergency requirements'' pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation which must be requested as promptly as possible: Provided 
further, That such replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a 
pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the 
Interior for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. 
Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued for services or rentals 
for periods not in excess of twelve months beginning at any time during 
the fiscal year.
<DELETED>    Sec. 107. Appropriations made in this title from the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund for acquisition of lands and waters, or 
interests therein, shall be available for transfer, with the approval 
of the Secretary, between the following accounts: Bureau of Land 
Management, Land acquisition, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
Land acquisition, and National Park Service, Land acquisition and State 
assistance. Use of such funds are subject to the reprogramming 
guidelines of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.</DELETED>
    Sec.  108. Prior to the transfer of Presidio properties to the 
Presidio Trust, when authorized, the Secretary may not obligate in any 
calendar month more than \1/12\ of the fiscal year 1997 appropriation 
for operation of the Presidio: Provided, That prior to the transfer of 
any Presidio property to the Presidio Trust, the Secretary shall 
transfer such funds as the Trust deems necessary to initiate leasing 
and other authorized activities of the Trust: Provided further, That 
this section shall expire on <DELETED>September 30, 1997 
</DELETED>December 31, 1996.
<DELETED>    Sec. 109. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended by the Secretary of 
the Interior for developing, promulgating, and thereafter implementing 
a rule concerning rights-of-way under section 2477 of the Revised 
Statutes.</DELETED>
    Sec. 109. No final rule or regulation of any agency of the Federal 
Government pertaining to the recognition, management, or validity of a 
right-of-way pursuant to Revised Statute 2477 (43 U.S.C. 932) shall 
take effect unless expressly authorized by an Act of Congress 
subsequent to the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of Northern, 
Central, and Southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 111. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of leasing, or the approval 
or permitting of any drilling or other exploration activity, on lands 
within the North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 112. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico for Outer Continental Shelf 
Lease Sale 151 in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil 
Resource Management Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 113. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Atlantic for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 164 
in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil Resource Management 
Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 114. There is hereby established in the Treasury a franchise 
fund pilot, as authorized by section 403 of Public Law 103-356, to be 
available as provided in such section for costs of capitalizing and 
operating administrative services as the Secretary determines may be 
performed more advantageously as central services: Provided, That any 
inventories, equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to 
be provided by such fund, either on hand or on order, less the related 
liabilities or unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made prior to 
the current year for the purpose of providing capital shall be used to 
capitalize such fund: Provided further, That such fund shall be paid in 
advance from funds available to the Department and other Federal 
agencies for which such centralized services are performed, at rates 
which will return in full all expenses of operation, including accrued 
leave, depreciation of fund plant and equipment, amortization of 
automatic data processing (ADP) software and systems (either acquired 
or donated) and an amount necessary to maintain a reasonable operating 
reserve, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That such 
fund shall provide services on a competitive basis: Provided further, 
That an amount not to exceed four percent of the total annual income to 
such fund may be retained in the fund for fiscal year 1997 and each 
fiscal year thereafter, to remain available until expended, to be used 
for the acquisition of capital equipment, and for the improvement and 
implementation of Department financial management, ADP, and other 
support systems: Provided further, That no later than thirty days after 
the end of each fiscal year amounts in excess of this reserve 
limitation shall be transferred to the Treasury: Provided further, That 
such franchise fund pilot shall terminate pursuant to section 403(f) of 
Public Law 103-356.
<DELETED>    Sec. 115. None of the funds in this Act or any other Act 
may be used by the Secretary for the redesign of Pennsylvania Avenue in 
front of the White House without the advance approval of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.</DELETED>
    Sec. 115. Public Law 102-495 is amended by adding the following new 
section:

``SEC. 10. WASHINGTON STATE REMOVAL OPTION.

    ``(a) Upon appropriation of $29,500,000 for the Federal Government 
to acquire the Elwha and Glines dams in Washington State pursuant to 
this Act, the State of Washington may, upon the submission to Congress 
of a binding agreement to remove the two dams within a reasonable 
period of time, purchase the two dams from the Federal Government for 
$2.
    ``(b) Upon receipt of the payment pursuant to subsection (a), the 
Federal Government shall relinquish ownership and title of dams to the 
State of Washington.
    ``(c) Upon the purchase of the dams by the State of Washington, 
Public Law 102-495 is hereby repealed.''.
    Sec. 116. Section 7 of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 7. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    ``The Commission shall terminate on November 10, 1997.''.
    Sec. 117. The Congress of the United States hereby designates and 
ratifies the assignment to the University of Utah as successor to, and 
beneficiary of, all the existing assets, revenues, funds and rights 
granted to the State of Utah under the Miners Hospital Grant (February 
20, 1929, 45 Stat. 1252) and the School of Mines Grant (July 26, 1894, 
28 Stat. 110). Further, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized and 
directed to accept such relinquishment of all remaining and unconveyed 
entitlement for quantity grants owed the State of Utah for the Miners 
Hospital Grant (February 20, 1929, 45 Stat. 1252) and any unconveyed 
entitlement that may remain for the University of Utah School of Mines 
Grant (July 26, 1894, 28 Stat. 110).
    Sec. 118. (a) No later than February 28, 1997, the Secretary of the 
Interior, upon negotiation with the committee established pursuant to 
subsection (c), and with the Office of Management and Budget, Special 
Trustee for American Indians, the Chief Financial Officer for the 
Department of the Interior, the Assistant Secretary--Indian Affairs, 
and the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior, shall transmit to 
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Indian Affairs of 
the United States Senate and to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a report which 
(1) proposes a formula to distribute the funds appropriated for the 
``Operation of Indian Programs'' account for direct payments to Indian 
tribes except those in Alaska and (2) identifies the amount of funds 
set aside to provide services to Indian tribes in Alaska.
    (b) The formula and the allocation to Alaska shall be deemed 
approved if within 30 calendar days of receipt of the report from the 
Secretary, no one of the Committees have taken action to disapprove the 
formula or the allocation to Alaska. Notification to the Secretary of 
any such disapproval shall be accomplished by a letter signed by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of any one of the four committees 
identified in subsection (a) with copies provided to the chairmen and 
ranking minority members of the other committees identified in 
subsection (a).
    (c) The negotiating committee referenced in subsection (a) shall be 
comprised of (1) Federal representatives as deemed necessary by the 
Secretary of the Interior and (2) tribal representatives, 12 of which 
shall be tribal representatives chosen by the tribes from each of the 
12 existing BIA Areas (3) one representative from each of the four 
Committees identified in subsection (a). Agreement by a two-thirds 
majority of tribal representatives is necessary for any formula 
developed by the negotiating committee.
    (d) The formula proposed under subsection (a) shall recognize the 
minimum funding requirements for small and needy tribes.
    (e) In developing the fiscal year 1998 budget request, the 
Secretary shall propose separate appropriations accounts for the 
amounts proposed for direct payments to tribes; and for amounts 
proposed to be provided for services to Indian tribes in Alaska.
    (f) For purposes of this section, the term ``Indian tribe'' means 
any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community 
of Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village 
corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native 
Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special 
programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because 
of their status as Indians, as further defined in the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, as amended.
    (g) No funds shall be distributed under the formula proposed 
pursuant to subsection (a) until the formula is approved under the 
procedures set forth in subsection (b). Not to exceed one-half of the 
funding to be included in the tribal formula within the ``Operation of 
Indian Programs'' account shall be available prior to implementation of 
the formula.
    (h) The determination of what funds from the Operation of Indian 
Programs account, excluding funds for education and reimbursable funds, 
are withheld from being made available for distribution under the 
formula shall include a determination negotiated with the negotiating 
committee described in subsection (c) of the amount, if any, of 
residual Federal funds to be retained by the Secretary that are 
minimally necessary to carry out trustee and other functions of the 
Federal Government that are not delegable by law to the Indian tribes.
    (i) Upon approval of the formula, the Secretary shall provide for 
the immediate and direct transfer, to any Indian tribe choosing to 
receive all those funds in lieu of direct services, the share of funds 
identified for that Indian tribe under the formula. Upon allocation of 
those funds to an Indian tribe, those funds will not be subject the 
oversight authority of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
    (j) Should the Federal-tribal negotiations under this section reach 
an impasse at any time before December 31, 1996, or there are 
unresolved issues as of December 31, 1996, the Secretary and the 
negotiating committee described in subsection (c) shall jointly select 
an arbitrator from the roster of individuals maintained by the 
Administrative Conference of the United States pursuant to title 5, 
section 573(c) of the United States Code, which arbitrator shall 
resolve the issues upon which there is impasse, after receiving 
evidence and hearing arguments from both the Federal and tribal 
representatives on the negotiating committee, and report the 
recommended resolution of the arbitrator to the Secretary and the four 
committees of the Congress identified in subsection (a), on or before 
February 28, 1997.
    (k) Section 402(b)(1) of The Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 458bb) is amended to read as 
follows: ``(1) In addition to those Indian tribes participating in 
self-governance under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary, 
acting through the Director of the Office of Self-Governance, may 
select up to 50 new tribes per year from the applicant pool described 
in subsection (c) of this section to participate in self-governance.''.
    Sec. 119. In fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, the Indian Arts and 
Crafts Board may charge admission fees at its museums; charge rent and/
or franchise fees for shops located in its museums; publish and sell 
publications; sell or rent or license use of photographs or other 
images in hard copy or other forms; license the use of designs, in 
whole or in part, by others; charge for consulting services provided to 
others; and may accept the services of volunteers to carry out its 
mission: Provided, That all revenue derived from such activities is 
covered into the special fund established by section 4 of Public Law 
74-355 (25 U.S.C. 305c).
    Sec. 120. Transfer of Certain Bureau of Land Management 
Facilities.--
            (a) Battle mountain, nevada.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, shall transfer to Lander County, Nevada, without 
        consideration, title to the former Bureau of Land Management 
        administrative site and associated buildings in Battle 
        Mountain, Nevada.
            (b) Winnemucca, nevada.--
                    (1) Transfer.--Not later than 30 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
                Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management, shall transfer to the State of Nevada, 
                without consideration, title to the surplus Bureau of 
                Land Management District Office building in Winnemucca, 
                Nevada.
                    (2) Use.--The transfer under paragraph (1) is made 
                with the intent that the building shall be available to 
                meet the needs of the Department of Conservation and 
                Natural Resources of the State of Nevada.
    Sec. 121. Cook Inlet Region, Inc. Recognition.--
            (a) Cook Inlet Region, Inc., an Alaska Native regional 
        corporation organized under Public Law 92-203, shall be deemed 
        to be an Indian tribal entity for the purpose of federal 
        programs for which Indians are eligible because of their status 
        as Indians.
            (b) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall specifically include 
        Cook Inlet Region, Inc. on any list that designates federally 
        recognized Indian tribes or Indian tribal entities for use in 
        administration of any Federal program.
            (c)(1) The tribe of a Native village located within the 
        Cook Inlet region shall serve as the tribal authority for the 
        purpose of receiving funding and administering Federal 
        assistance and social service programs within the settled area 
        associated with the village, provided that Cook Inlet Region, 
        Inc. shall serve as the tribal authority for such purposes for 
        all other areas within the region and for the Municipality of 
        Anchorage. These village tribes and Cook Inlet Region, Inc. may 
        delegate their or its tribal authority to another tribe or 
        tribal organization in the region. For purposes of this 
        subsection, ``settled area'' shall mean that area containing 
        the cluster of houses, buildings, roads, and trails of the 
        improved village site.
            (2) For those Alaska Natives residing within the Cook Inlet 
        region who are not enrolled to or otherwise affiliated with a 
        tribe, Cook Inlet Region, Inc. shall serve as the tribal 
        authority.
    Sec. 122. Alaska Aviation Heritage.--
            (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
                    (1) the Department of the Interior's Grumman Goose 
                G21-A aircraft number N789 is to be retired from 
                several decades of active service in the State of 
                Alaska in 1996; and
                    (2) the aircraft is of significant historic value 
                to the people of the State of Alaska.
            (b) Donation of aircraft.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall transfer the Grumman Goose G21-A aircraft number N789 to 
        the Alaska Aviation Heritage Museum in Anchorage, Alaska, at no 
        cost to the museum, for permanent display.
    Sec. 123. The Mesquite Lands Act of 1988 is amended by adding the 
following at the end of section 3:
    ``(d) Fourth Area.--(1) No later than ten years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the City of Mesquite shall notify the Secretary 
as to which if any of the public lands identified in paragraph (2) of 
this subsection the city wishes to purchase.
    ``(2) For a period of twelve years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the city shall have exclusive right to purchase the following 
parcels of public lands:
            ``Parcel A--East \1/2\ Sec. 6, T. 13 S., R. 71 E., Mount 
        Diablo Meridian; Sec. 5, T. 13 S., R. 71 E., Mount Diablo 
        Meridian; West \1/2\ Sec. 4, T. 13 S., R. 71 E, Mount Diablo 
        Meridian; East \1/2\, West \1/2\ Sec. 4, T. 13 S., R. 71 E., 
        Mount Diablo Meridian.
            ``Parcel B--North \1/2\ Sec. 7, T. 13 S., R. 71 E., Mount 
        Diablo Meridian; South East \1/4\ Sec. 12, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., 
        Mount Diablo Meridian; East \1/2\, North East \1/4\ Sec. 12, T. 
        13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; East \1/2\, West \1/2\ 
        North East \1/4\ Sec. 12, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo 
        Meridian.
            ``Parcel C--West \1/2\ Sec. 6, T. 13 S., R. 71 E., Mount 
        Diablo Meridian; Sec. 1, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo 
        Meridian; West \1/2\, West \1/2\, North East \1/4\ Sec. 12, T. 
        13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; North West \1/4\ Sec. 
        13, S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; West \1/2\ Sec. 12, T. 
        13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; East \1/2\, South East 
        \1/4\, Sec. 11, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; East 
        \1/2\ North East \1/4\, Sec. 14, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount 
        Diablo Meridian.
            ``Parcel D--South \1/2\ Sec. 14, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount 
        Diablo Meridian; South West \1/4\, Sec. 13, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., 
        Mount Diablo Meridian; Portion of section 23, North of 
        Interstate 15, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian; 
        Portion of section 24, North of Interstate 15, T. 13 S., R. 70 
        E., Mount Diablo Meridian; Portion of section 26, North of 
        Interstate 15, T. 13 S., R. 70 E., Mount Diablo Meridian.''

SEC. 124. FATHER AULL SITE TRANSFER.

    (a) This section may be cited as the ``Father Aull Site Transfer 
Act of 1996''.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the buildings and grounds developed by Father Roger 
        Aull located on public domain land near Silver City, New 
        Mexico, are historically significant to the citizens of the 
        community;
            (2) vandalism at the site has become increasingly 
        destructive and frequent in recent years;
            (3) because of the isolated location and the distance from 
        other significant resources and agency facilities, the Bureau 
        of Land Management has been unable to devote sufficient 
        resources to restore and protect the site from further damage; 
        and
            (4) St. Vincent DePaul Parish in Silver City, New Mexico, 
        has indicated an interest in, and developed a sound proposal 
        for the restoration of, the site, such that the site could be 
        permanently occupied and used by the community.
    (c) Conveyance of Property.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
right, title and interest of the United States in and to the land 
(including improvements on the land), consisting of approximately 43.06 
acres, located approximately 10 miles east of Silver City, New Mexico, 
and described as follows: T. 17 S., R. 12 W., Section 30: Lot 13, and 
Section 31: Lot 27 (as generally depicted on the map dated July 1995) 
is hereby conveyed by operation of law to St. Vincent DePaul Parish in 
Silver City, New Mexico, without consideration.
    (d) Release.--Upon the conveyance of any land or interest in land 
identified in this section of St. Vincent DePaul Parish, St. Vincent 
DePaul Parish shall assume any liability for any claim relating to the 
land or interest in the land arising after the date of the conveyance.
    (e) Map.--The map referred to in this section shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in--
            (1) the State of New Mexico Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, Santa Fe, New Mexico; and
            (2) the Las Cruces District Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, Las Cruces, New Mexico.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                       Department of Agriculture

                             forest service

                     forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, <DELETED>$179,000,000 </DELETED>$180,200,000, to 
remain available until <DELETED>September 30, 1998: Provided, That 
unobligated and unexpended balances remaining in this account at the 
end of fiscal year 1996 shall be merged with and made a part of the 
fiscal year 1997 Forest and Rangeland Research appropriation 
</DELETED>expended.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with, and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, Territories, possessions, and 
others and for forest pest management activities, cooperative forestry 
and education and land conservation activities, <DELETED>$148,884,000 
</DELETED>$156,811,000 to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by law.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, for ecosystem planning, inventory, and 
monitoring, and for administrative expenses associated with the 
management of funds provided under the heads ``Forest and Rangeland 
Research,'' ``State and Private Forestry,'' ``National Forest System,'' 
``Wildland Fire Management,'' ``Reconstruction and Construction,'' and 
``Land Acquisition,'' <DELETED>$1,259,057,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
</DELETED>$1,285,881,000 to remain available <DELETED>for obligation 
</DELETED>until <DELETED>September 30, 1998 </DELETED>expended, and 
including <DELETED>50 </DELETED>60 per centum of all monies received 
during the prior fiscal year as fees collected under the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended, in accordance with section 4 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 4601-6a(i)): Provided, <DELETED>That unobligated 
and unexpended balances in the National Forest System account at the 
end of fiscal year 1996, shall be merged with and made a part of the 
fiscal year 1997 National Forest System appropriation, and shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1998: Provided further, 
</DELETED>That up to $5,000,000 of the funds provided herein for road 
maintenance shall be available for the planned obliteration of roads 
which are no longer needed.

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, 
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned over National Forest System 
lands, $411,485,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
unexpended balances of amounts previously appropriated under any other 
headings for Forest Service fire activities are transferred to and 
merged with this appropriation and subject to the same terms and 
conditions: Provided further, That such funds are available for 
repayment of advances from other appropriations accounts previously 
transferred for such purposes.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $250,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That such funds are available for 
repayment of advances from other accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes.
    In addition, to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $109,531,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That these funds, or any portion 
thereof, shall be available only to the extent that the President 
notifies the Congress of his designation of any or all of these amounts 
as emergency requirements under the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 252(b)(2)(D)(I) of such Act: Provided further, That 
such funds are available for repayment of advances from other 
appropriations accounts previously transferred for such purposes.

                    reconstruction and construction

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, <DELETED>$164,100,000 </DELETED>$172,167,000, to remain 
available until expended for construction, reconstruction and 
acquisition of buildings and other facilities, and for construction, 
reconstruction and repair of forest roads and trails by the Forest 
Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: 
Provided, That not to exceed $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, may be obligated for the construction of forest roads by 
timber purchasers<DELETED>:-Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this head for the construction of the Wayne National Forest 
Supervisor's Office may be granted to the Ohio State Highway Patrol, 
Ohio State Department of Transportation, as the Federal share of the 
cost of construction of a new facility to be jointly occupied by the 
Forest Service and the Ohio State Highway Patrol: Provided further, 
That an agreed upon lease of space in the new facility shall be 
provided to the Forest Service without charge for the life of the 
building</DELETED>.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 4601-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the Forest Service, <DELETED>$30,000,000 
</DELETED>$39,660,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended<DELETED>:-
Provided, That funding for specific land acquisitions are subject to 
the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations</DELETED>.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,069,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of 
December 4, 1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available 
until expended.

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 per centum of all moneys received during the prior 
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in 
National Forests in the sixteen Western States, pursuant to section 
401(b)(1) of Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed 6 per centum shall be available for 
administrative expenses associated with on-the-ground range 
rehabilitation, protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $92,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.

               administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (a) purchase of not to exceed 159 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 14 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 149 shall be for replacement; acquisition of 10 
passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such 
vehicles; operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to 
exceed two for replacement only, and acquisition of 20 aircraft from 
excess sources; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing 
aircraft being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in 
value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; 
(b) services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (c) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (d) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein, pursuant to 7 
U.S.C. 428a; (e) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the 
National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C 558a, 558d, 558a note); and (f) 
for debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to change the boundaries of any region, to abolish any 
region, to move or close any regional office for research, State and 
private forestry, or National Forest System administration of the 
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, or to implement any 
reorganization, ``reinvention'' or other type of organizational 
restructuring of the Forest Service, other than the relocation of the 
Regional Office for Region 5 of the Forest Service from San Francisco 
to excess military property at Mare Island, Vallejo, California, 
without the consent of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Any funds available to the Forest Service may be used for 
retrofitting Mare Island facilities to accommodate the relocation: 
Provided, That funds for the move must come from funds otherwise 
available to Region 5: Provided further, That any funds to be provided 
for such purposes shall only be available upon approval of the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
advanced to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation and may be used 
for forest firefighting and the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over 
lands under its jurisdiction.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Foreign Agricultural Service in connection with forest and 
rangeland research, technical information, and assistance in foreign 
countries, and shall be available to support forestry and related 
natural resource activities outside the United States and its 
territories and possessions, including technical assistance, education 
and training, and cooperation with United States and international 
organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in House Report 103-551.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the procedures 
contained in House Report 103-551.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of the law, any appropriations 
or funds available to the Forest Service may be used to disseminate 
program information to private and public individuals and organizations 
through the use of nonmonetary items of nominal value and to provide 
nonmonetary awards of nominal value and to incur necessary expenses for 
the nonmonetary recognition of private individuals and organizations 
that make contributions to Forest Service programs.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money collected, in 
advance or otherwise, by the Forest Service under authority of section 
101 of Public Law 93-153 (30 U.S.C. 185(1)) as reimbursement of 
administrative and other costs incurred in processing pipeline right-
of-way or permit applications and for costs incurred in monitoring the 
construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of any pipeline 
and related facilities, may be used to reimburse the applicable 
appropriation to which such costs were originally charged.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, 
as amended by Public Law 93-408.
    None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for timber 
sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 
percent of the fiscal year 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National 
Forest, Ohio: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to 
hardwood stands damaged by natural disaster: Provided further, That 
landscape architects shall be used to maintain a visually pleasing 
forest.
    Any money collected from the States for fire suppression assistance 
rendered by the Forest Service on non-Federal lands not in the vicinity 
of National Forest System lands shall be used to reimburse the 
applicable appropriation and shall remain available until expended as 
the Secretary may direct in conducting activities authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 2101 (note), 2101-2110, 1606, and 2111.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Forest Service is 
authorized to employ or otherwise contract with persons at regular 
rates of pay, as determined by the Service, to perform work occasioned 
by emergencies such as fires, storms, floods, earthquakes or any other 
unavoidable cause without regard to Sundays, Federal holidays, and the 
regular workweek.
    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    <DELETED>Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-
593, funds up to $1,000,000 for matching funds shall be available for 
the National Forest Foundation.
</DELETED>    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to 
$1,000,000 of the funds available to the Forest Service shall be 
available for matching funds, as authorized in 16 U.S.C. 3701-3709, on 
a one-for-one basis to match private contributions for projects on 
National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service programs.
    Pursuant to section 402(b) of Public Law 101-593, up to $1,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service shall be available for 
matching funds, as authorized in 16 U.S.C. 583j-3, on a one-for-one 
basis to match private contributions for projects on National Forest 
System lands or related to Forest Service programs.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 80 percent of the funds 
appropriated to the Forest Service in the National Forest System and 
Construction accounts and planned to be allocated to activities under 
the ``Jobs in the Woods'' program for projects on National Forest land 
in the State of Washington may be granted directly to the Washington 
State Department of Fish and Wildlife for accomplishment of planned 
projects. Twenty percent of said funds shall be retained by the Forest 
Service for planning and administering projects. Project selection and 
prioritization shall be accomplished by the Forest Service with such 
consultation with the State of Washington as the Forest Service deems 
appropriate.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to sections 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    None of the funds provided in this or any other Act may be spent to 
implement the Tongass Land Management Plan (TLMP) revision until the 
General Accounting Office certifies that the process used to develop 
the TLMP complies with the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (90 
Stat. 2949; Public Law 94-588) and the Tongass Timber Reform Act of 
1990 (104 Stat. 4426; Public Law 101-626), as amended.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                         clean coal technology

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading for obligation in 
fiscal year 1997 or prior years, $150,000,000 are rescinded: Provided, 
That funds made available in previous appropriations Acts shall be 
available for any ongoing project regardless of the separate request 
for proposal under which the project was selected.

                 fossil energy research and development

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal 
of mineral substances without objectionable social and environmental 
costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), performed under the minerals and 
materials science programs at the Albany Research Center in Oregon, 
<DELETED>$354,754,000 </DELETED>$367,504,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no part of the sum herein made available shall 
be used for the field testing of nuclear explosives in the recovery of 
oil and gas.

                      alternative fuels production

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    Monies received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1996, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the General Fund of the 
Treasury. Monies received as revenue sharing from the operation of the 
Great Plains Gasification Plant shall be immediately transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury. Funds are hereby rescinded in the amount 
of $2,500,000 from unobligated balances under this head.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For necessary expenses in carrying out naval petroleum and oil 
shale reserve activities, <DELETED>$143,786,000 (reduced by 
$11,764,000) </DELETED>$133,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) 
shall not apply to fiscal year 1997.

                          energy conservation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, <DELETED>$507,680,000 (increased by $11,764,000) (increased 
by $4,000,000) </DELETED>$570,452,000, to remain available until 
expended, including, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
excess amount for fiscal year 1997 determined under the provisions of 
section 3003(d) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided, That 
<DELETED>$125,000,000 (increased by $11,764,000) </DELETED>$158,900,000 
shall be for use in energy conservation programs as defined in section 
3008(3) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507) and shall not be 
available until excess amounts are determined under the provisions of 
section 3003(d) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509 
such sums shall be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: 
<DELETED>$100,000,000 (increased by $11,764,000) </DELETED>$131,500,000 
for weatherization assistance grants and <DELETED>$25,000,000 
</DELETED>$27,400,000 for State energy conservation grants.

                          economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Office 
of Hearing and Appeals, $2,725,000, to remain available until expended.

                      strategic petroleum reserve

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant 
to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $220,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
<DELETED>of which $220,000,000 shall be repaid from the ``SPR Operating 
Fund'' from amounts made available from the sale of oil from the 
Reserve </DELETED>of which $220,000,000 shall be repaid from the ``SPR 
Operating Fund'' from amounts made available from the sale of oil from 
the Reserve: Provided, That notwithstanding section 161 of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act, the Secretary shall draw down and sell in 
fiscal year 1997 $220,000,000 worth of oil from the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve: Provided further, That the proceeds from the sale shall be 
deposited into a special account in the Treasury, to be established and 
known as the ``SPR Operating Fund'', and shall, upon receipt, be 
transferred to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve account for operations 
of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

                         spr petroleum account

    Notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 6240(d) the United States share of crude 
oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk Hills) may be sold or 
otherwise disposed of to other than the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: 
Provided, That outlays in fiscal year 1997 resulting from the use of 
funds in this account shall not exceed $5,000,000.

                   energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, <DELETED>$66,120,000 </DELETED>$64,120,000 
to remain available until expended.

            administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made 
to other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for 
which the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to 
prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, 
private or foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received 
by or for the account of the Department of Energy or otherwise 
generated by sale of products in connection with projects of the 
Department appropriated under this Act may be retained by the Secretary 
of Energy, to be available until expended, and used only for plant 
construction, operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities 
as provided in appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: 
Provided further, That the remainder of revenues after the making of 
such payments shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts: Provided further, That any contract, agreement, or provision 
thereof entered into by the Secretary pursuant to this authority shall 
not be executed prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not 
including any day in which either House of Congress is not in session 
because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full comprehensive 
report on such project, including the facts and circumstances relied 
upon in support of the proposed project.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.
    In addition to other authorities set forth in this Act, the 
Secretary may accept fees and contributions from public and private 
sources, to be deposited in a contributed funds account, and prosecute 
projects using such fees and contributions in cooperation with other 
Federal, State or private agencies or concerns.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to the Indian Health Service, <DELETED>$1,779,561,000 
</DELETED>$1,800,836,000, together with payments received during the 
fiscal year pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 238(b) for services furnished by the 
Indian Health Service: Provided, That funds made available to tribes 
and tribal organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any 
other agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), 
shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract 
award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
$12,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for the Indian 
Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund: Provided further, That 
<DELETED>$353,125,000 </DELETED>$353,128,000 for contract medical care 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1998: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, not less than 
<DELETED>$11,306,000 </DELETED>$11,706,000 shall be used to carry out 
the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act: Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may 
be used for one-year contracts and grants which are to be performed in 
two fiscal years, so long as the total obligation is recorded in the 
year for which the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That the 
amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
the authority of title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall remain available until expended for the purpose of achieving 
compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements of titles 
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act (exclusive of planning, 
design, or construction of new facilities)<DELETED>:-Provided further, 
That of the funds provided, $7,500,000 shall remain available until 
expended, for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, which shall be 
available for the transitional costs of initial or expanded tribal 
contracts, grants or cooperative agreements with the Indian Health 
Service under the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination 
Act</DELETED>: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $7,500,000 
shall remain available until expended, for the Indian Self-
Determination Fund, which shall be available for the nonrecurring 
transitional costs of initial or expanded tribal contracts, compacts, 
grants or cooperative agreements with the Indian Health Service under 
the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act: Provided further, 
That funding contained herein, and in any earlier appropriations Acts 
for scholarship programs under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
(25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available for obligation until September 
30, 1998: Provided further, That amounts received by tribes and tribal 
organizations under title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall be reported and accounted for and available to the receiving 
tribes and tribal organizations until expended.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities 
support activities of the Indian Health Service, <DELETED>$227,701,000 
</DELETED>$251,957,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated for 
the planning, design, construction or renovation of health facilities 
for the benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase 
land for sites to construct, improve, or enlarge health or related 
facilities.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefore as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for expenses of attendance at 
meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for which 
the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved conduct, 
supervision, or management of those functions or activities: Provided, 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care at all 
tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to 
charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal 
Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-53) shall be credited to the 
account of the facility providing the service and shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act) and Public Law 93-638, as amended: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this Act, except those 
used for administrative and program direction purposes, shall not be 
subject to limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and 
transportation: <DELETED>Provided further, That the Indian Health 
Service shall neither bill nor charge those Indians who may have the 
economic means to pay unless and until such time as Congress has agreed 
upon a specific policy to do so and has directed the Indian Health 
Service to implement such a policy: </DELETED>Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds previously or herein 
made available to a tribe or tribal organization through a contract, 
grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title III of the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination 
contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title III 
of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or 
tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available to the Indian Health Service in 
this Act shall be used to implement the final rule published in the 
Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and 
Human Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care 
services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health Service 
has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased costs 
associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has been 
included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted 
for in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided 
further, That funds received from any source, including tribal 
contractors and compactors for previously transferred functions which 
tribal contractors and compactors no longer wish to retain, for 
services, goods, or training and technical assistance, shall be 
retained by the Indian Health Service and shall remain available until 
expended by the Indian Health Service: Provided further, That 
reimbursements for training, technical assistance, or services provided 
by the Indian Health Service will contain total costs, including 
direct, administrative, and overhead associated with the provision of 
goods, services, or technical assistance: Provided further, That the 
appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service may not be 
altered without advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

              Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

                            indian education

    For necessary expenses to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title IX, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, as amended, and section 215 of the Department of Education 
Organization Act, $52,500,000.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, <DELETED>$20,345,000 
</DELETED>$19,345,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That funds provided in this or any other appropriations Act are to be 
used to relocate eligible individuals and groups including evictees 
from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands residents, those in 
significantly substandard housing, and all others certified as eligible 
and not included in the preceding categories: Provided further, That 
none of the funds contained in this or any other Act may be used by the 
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo 
or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled 
on the lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement 
home is provided for such household: Provided further, That no 
relocatee will be provided with more than one new or replacement home: 
Provided further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498, as amended (20 U.S.C. 56, part A), $5,500,000.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed thirty years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to 5 replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, rental, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees; <DELETED>$317,188,000 
</DELETED>$317,582,000, of which not to exceed <DELETED>$31,664,000 
</DELETED>$30,665,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, exhibition 
reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, the 
repatriation of skeletal remains program, research equipment, 
information management, and Latino programming shall remain available 
until expended, and including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations.

        construction and improvements, national zoological park

    For necessary expenses of planning, construction, remodeling, and 
equipping of buildings and facilities at the National Zoological Park, 
by contract or otherwise, <DELETED>$3,250,000 </DELETED>$4,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                  repair and restoration of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair and restoration of buildings owned 
or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract or otherwise, 
as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 
623), including not to exceed $10,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, <DELETED>$39,954,000 </DELETED>$38,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
restoration of buildings of the Smithsonian Institution may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, <DELETED>$7,000,000 
</DELETED>$12,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $53,899,000, of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special 
exhibition program shall remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized, $5,942,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $10,875,000.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses of capital repair and rehabilitation of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $9,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$5,840,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $82,734,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to 
organizations and individuals pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                            matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$16,760,000, to remain available until expended, to the National 
Endowment for the Arts: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 11(a)(2)(A) and 
11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, <DELETED>$92,994,000 
</DELETED>$87,994,000 shall be available to the National Endowment for 
the Humanities for support of activities in the humanities, pursuant to 
section 7(c) of the Act, and for administering the functions of the 
Act, to remain available until expended.

                            matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$11,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which $7,500,000 
shall be available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for the 
purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the 
current and preceding fiscal years for which equal amounts have not 
previously been appropriated.

                      Institute of Museum Services

                       grants and administration

    For carrying out title II of the Arts, Humanities, and Cultural 
Affairs Act of 1976, as amended, $21,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                       administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $867,000.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956(a)), as amended, $6,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665, as amended), $2,500,000: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be available for the compensation of 
Executive Level V or higher position.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,390,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members will be compensated at a rate not to exceed the rate for 
Executive Schedule Level IV.

             Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial 
Commission, established by the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 694), 
as amended by Public Law 92-332 (86 Stat. 401), <DELETED>$125,000 
</DELETED>$500,000 to remain available until expended.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388 (36 U.S.C. 1401), as amended, <DELETED>$29,707,000 
</DELETED>$30,707,000, of which $1,575,000 for the Museum's repair and 
rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the Museum's exhibitions 
program shall remain available until expended.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive Order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is 
not complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of 
such department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless advance 
notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
    Sec. 307. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds 
        made available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress 
        that entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, 
        the head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient 
        of the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.
     (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling 
Products as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a 
court or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label 
bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the 
same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States 
that is not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible 
to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available 
in this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant 
sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest 
System or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than 
such sales were conducted in fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal 
of the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 310. Where the actual costs of construction projects under 
self-determination contracts, compacts, or grants, pursuant to Public 
Laws 93-638, 103-413, or 100-297, are less than the estimated costs 
thereof, use of the resulting excess funds shall be determined by the 
appropriate Secretary after consultation with the tribes.
    Sec. 311. Notwithstanding Public Law 103-413, quarterly payments of 
funds to tribes and tribal organizations under annual funding 
agreements pursuant to section 108 of Public Law 93-638, as amended, 
may be made on the first business day following the first day of a 
fiscal quarter.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps program, unless 
the relevant agencies of the Department of the Interior and/or 
Agriculture follow appropriate reprogramming guidelines: Provided, That 
if no funds are provided for the AmeriCorps program by the VA-HUD and 
Independent Agencies fiscal year 1997 appropriations bill, then none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used for the AmeriCorps programs.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
(1) to demolish the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis 
Island; or (2) to prevent pedestrian use of such bridge, when it is 
made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that such pedestrian use is consistent with generally 
accepted safety standards.
    Sec. 314. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to accept 
or process applications for a patent for any mining or mill site claim 
located under the general mining laws.
    (b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned: (1) 
a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or before 
September 30, 1994, and (2) all requirements established under sections 
2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or 
lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the 
case may be, were fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Processing Schedule.--For those applications for patents 
pursuant to subsection (b) which were filed with the Secretary of the 
Interior, prior to September 30, 1994, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall--
            (1) Within three months of the enactment of this Act, file 
        with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and the 
        Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
        Senate a plan which details how the Department of the Interior 
        will make a final determination as to whether or not an 
        applicant is entitled to a patent under the general mining laws 
        on at least 90 percent of such applications within five years 
        of the enactment of this Act and file reports annually 
        thereafter with the same committees detailing actions taken by 
        the Department of the Interior to carry out such plan; and
            (2) Take such actions as may be necessary to carry out such 
        plan.
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Bureau of 
Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the mining claims 
or mill sites contained in a patent application as set forth in 
subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have the sole 
responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for the purposes of acquiring lands 
in the counties of Lawrence, Monroe, or Washington, Ohio, for the Wayne 
National Forest.
    Sec. 316. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts:
            (a) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
        American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (b) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
        to a <DELETED>State, regional or local group, </DELETED>State 
        or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used to make a 
        grant to any other organization or individual to conduct 
        activity independent of the direct grant recipient. Nothing in 
        this subsection shall prohibit payments made in exchange for 
        goods and services.
            (c) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs and/or projects.
    Sec. 317. The United States Forest Service approval of Alternative 
site 2 (ALT 2), issued on December 6, 1993, is hereby authorized and 
approved and shall be deemed to be consistent with, and permissible 
under, the terms of Public Law 100-696 (the Arizona-Idaho Conservation 
Act of 1988).
    Sec. 318. None of the funds made available to the Department of the 
Interior or the Department of Agriculture by this or any other Act may 
be used to issue or implement final regulations, rules, or policies 
pursuant to title VIII of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act to assert jurisdiction, management, or control over 
navigable waters transferred to the State of Alaska pursuant to the 
Submerged Lands Act of 1953 or the Alaska Statehood Act of 1959.
    Sec. 319. No funds appropriated under this or any other Act shall 
be used to review or modify sourcing areas previously approved under 
section 490(c)(3) of the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage 
Relief Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-382) or to enforce or implement 
Federal regulations 36 CFR part 223 promulgated on September 8, 1995. 
The regulations and interim rules in effect prior to September 8, 1995 
(36 CFR 223.48, 36 CFR 223.87, 36 CFR 223 subpart D, 36 CFR 223 subpart 
F, and 36 CFR 261.6) shall remain in effect. The Secretary of 
Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior shall not adopt any 
policies concerning Public Law 101-382 or existing regulations that 
would restrain domestic transportation or processing of timber from 
private lands or impose additional accountability requirements on any 
timber. The Secretary of Commerce shall extend until September 30, 
1997, the order issued under section 491(b)(2)(A) of Public Law 101-382 
and shall issue an order under section 491(b)(2)(B) of such law that 
will be effective October 1, 1997.
<DELETED>    Sec. 320. Section 101(c) of Public Law 104-134 is amended 
as follows: Under the heading ``Title III--General Provisions'' amend 
section 315(f) by striking ``September 30, 1998'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``September 30, 1999'' and by striking ``September 30, 2001'' 
and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 2002''.</DELETED>
    Sec. 320. Section 101(c) of Public Law 104-134 is amended as 
follows: Under the heading ``Title III--General Provisions'' amend 
section 315(b) by striking ``50, areas,'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``100, areas,'' and amend section 315(f) by striking ``September 30, 
1998'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1999'' and by 
striking ``September 30, 2001'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``September 30, 2002''.
    Sec. 321. None of the amounts made available by this Act may be 
used for design, planning, implementation, engineering, construction, 
or any other activity in connection with a scenic shoreline drive in 
Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.
<DELETED>    Sec. 322. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to transfer any land into trust 
under section 5 of the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 465), or 
any other Federal statute that does not explicitly denominate and 
identify a specific tribe or specific property, except when it is made 
known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or expend 
such funds that--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) a binding agreement is in place between the 
        tribe that will have jurisdiction over the land to be taken 
        into trust and the appropriate State and local officials; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) such agreement provides, for as long as the 
        land is held in trust, for the collection and payment, by any 
        retail establishment located on the land to be taken into 
        trust, of State and local sales and excise taxes, including any 
        special tax on motor fuel, tobacco, or alcohol, on any retail 
        item sold to any nonmember of the tribe for which the land is 
        held in trust, or an agreed upon payment in lieu of such 
        taxes.</DELETED>
    Sec. 322. Land transfer, Bend Silviculture Lab, Deschutes National 
Forest, Oregon.--
            (a) Transfer of real property and all improvements located 
        thereon.--Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, there is 
        hereby transferred, without consideration and subject to 
        existing valid rights, all right, title and interest of the 
        United States in and to approximately 5.73 acres of land as 
        described by plat dated July 7, 1977, (which is on file and 
        available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief, 
        USDA Forest Service, Washington, D.C.), as well as all 
        improvements, including the Bend Silviculture Lab located 
        thereon, to the Central Oregon Community College, Bend, Oregon; 
        this being a portion of the same tract acquired by donation 
        from the City of Bend on August 10, 1960, through a Bargain and 
        Sale deed to the USDA Forest Service for use as a research lab, 
        and recorded in volume 125, page 508 of the Deschutes County, 
        Oregon, Deed Records.
            (b) Conditions of transfer.--The transfer effected by 
        subsection (a) is made subject to no special terms or 
        conditions.
    Sec. 323. Upon the date of enactment of this Act, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act or any other Act shall be expended 
or obligated to fund the activities of the Office of Forestry and 
Economic Assistance, or any successor office.
    Sec. 324. (a) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept 
title to approximately 84 acres of land located in Prince Georges 
County, Maryland, adjacent to Oxon Cove Park, and bordered generally by 
the Potomac River, Interstate 295 and the Woodrow Wilson Bridge, or any 
interest therein, and in exchange therefor may convey to the 
Corrections Corporation of America approximately 50 acres of land 
located in Oxon Cove Park in the District of Columbia and bordered 
generally by Oxon Cove, Interstate 295 and the District of Columbia 
Impound Lot, or any interest therein.
    (b) Before proceeding with an exchange, the Secretary shall 
determine if the federal property is suitable for exchange under the 
criteria normally used by the National Park Service. The exchange shall 
comply with applicable regulations and National Park Service policies 
for land exchanges.
    (c)(1) The Secretary shall not acquire any lands under this section 
if the Secretary determines that the lands or any portion thereof have 
become contaminated with hazardous substances (as defined in the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
(42 U.S.C. 960l)).
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
shall have no responsibility or liability with respect to any hazardous 
wastes or other substances placed on any of the lands covered by this 
section after their transfer to the ownership of any party, but nothing 
in this section shall be construed as either diminishing or increasing 
any responsibility or liability of the United States based on the 
condition of such lands on the date of their transfer to the ownership 
of another party: Provided, That the Corrections Corporation of America 
shall indemnify the United States for liabilities arising under the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
(42 U.S.C. 960l) and the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
690l, et seq.).
    (d) The properties so exchanged either shall be approximately equal 
in fair market value or if they are not approximately equal, shall be 
equalized by the payment of cash to the Corporation or to the Secretary 
as required or in the event the value of the Corporation's lands is 
greater, the acreage may be reduced so that the fair market value is 
approximately equal: Provided, That the Secretary shall order 
appraisals made of the fair market value for improvements thereon: 
Provided further, That any such cash payment received by the Secretary 
shall be deposited to ``Miscellaneous Trust Funds, National Park 
Service'' and shall be available without further appropriation until 
expended for the acquisition of land within the National Park System.
    (e) Costs of conducting necessary land surveys, preparing the legal 
descriptions of the lands to be conveyed, performing the appraisals, 
and administrative costs incurred in completing the exchange shall be 
borne by the Corporation.
    (f) Following any exchange authorized by this provision, the 
boundaries of Oxon Cove Park shall be expanded to include the land 
acquired by the United States.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds provided by this Act or any other Act 
available to the National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, 
Bureau of Land Management, or Forest Service may be obligated for the 
costs of employee relocation or transfer of duty at a level that 
exceeds ninety percent of the average amounts spent for this purpose in 
fiscal year 1994 and 1995.
    Sec. 326. Section 1. Land Exchange.--
            (a) Exchange.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of 
        Agriculture (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') 
        shall convey all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the National Forest System lands described in 
        subsection (b)(1) to Public Utility District No. 1 of Chelan 
        County, Washington (referred to in this section as the ``Public 
        Utility District''), in exchange for the conveyance to the 
        Department of Agriculture by the Public Utility District of all 
        right, title, and interest of the Public Utility District in 
        and to the lands described in subsection (b)(2).
            (b) Description of lands.--
                    (1) National Forest System Lands.--The National 
                Forest System lands referred to in subsection (a) are 
                122 acres, more or less, that are partially occupied by 
                a wastewater treatment facility referred to in 
                subsection (c)(4)(A) with the following legal 
                description:
                            (A) The NE\1/4\ of SW\1/4\ of section 27 of 
                        township 27 north, range 17 east, Wilamette 
                        Meridian, Chelan County, Washington.
                            (B) The N\1/2\ of SE\1/4\ of SW\1/4\ of 
                        such section 27.
                            (C) The W\1/2\ of NW\1/4\ of SE\1/4\ of 
                        such section 27.
                            (D) The NW\1/4\ of SW\1/4\ of SE\1/4\ of 
                        such section 27.
                            (E) The E\1/2\ of NW\1/4\ of the SE\1/4\ of 
                        such section 27.
                            (F) That portion of the S\1/2\ of SE\1/4\ 
                        of SW\1/4\ lying north of the northerly edge of 
                        Highway 209 right-of-way of such section 27.
                    (2) Public utility district lands.--The lands owned 
                by the Public Utility District are 109.15 acres, more 
                or less, with the following legal description:
                            (A) S\1/2\ of SW\1/4\ of section 35 of 
                        township 26 north, range 17 east, Wilamette 
                        Meridian, Chelan County, Washington.
                            (B) The area specified by Public Utility 
                        District No. 1 as Government Lot 5 in such 
                        section 35.
            (c) Requirements for exchange.--
                    (1) Title acceptance and conveyance.--Upon offer by 
                the Public Utility District of all right, title and 
                interest in and to the lands described in subsection 
                (b)(2), if the title is found acceptable by the 
                Secretary, the Secretary shall accept title to such 
                lands and interests therein and shall convey to the 
                Public Utility District all right, title, and interest 
                of the United States in and to the lands described in 
                subsection (b)(1).
                    (2) Appraisals required.--Before making an exchange 
                pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall conduct 
                appraisals of the lands that are subject to the 
                exchange to determine the fair market value of the 
                lands. Such appraisals shall not include the value of 
                the wastewater treatment facility referred to in 
                paragraph (4)(A).
                    (3) Additional consideration.--If, on the basis of 
                the appraisals made under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                determines that the fair market value of the lands to 
                be conveyed by one party under subsection (a) is less 
                than the fair market value of the lands to be conveyed 
                by the other party under subsection (a), then, as a 
                condition of making the exchange under subsection (a), 
                the party conveying the lands with the lesser value 
                shall pay the other party the amount by which the fair 
                market value of the lands of greater value exceeds the 
                fair market value of the lands of lesser value.
                    (4) Conveyance of wastewater treatment facility.--
                (A) As part of an exchange made under subsection (a), 
                the Secretary shall convey to the Public Utility 
                District of Chelan County, Washington, all right, title 
                and interest of the United States in and to the 
                wastewater treatment facility (including the wastewater 
                treatment plant and associated lagoons) located on the 
                lands described in subsection (b)(1) that is in 
                existence on the date of the exchange.
                    (B) As a condition for the exchange under 
                subsection (a), the Public Utility District shall 
                provide for a credit equal to the fair market value of 
                the wastewater treatment facility conveyed pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) (determined as of November 4, 1991), 
                that shall be applied to the United States' share of 
                any new wastewater treatment facility constructed by 
                the Public Utility District after such date.
            (d) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may 
        require such additional terms and conditions in connection with 
        the exchange under this section as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
    Sec. 327. ``Snoqualmie National Forest Boundary Adjustment Act of 
1996.''
            (a) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby 
        directed to modify the boundary of the Snoqualmie National 
        Forest to include and encompass 10,589.47 acres, more or less, 
        as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Snoqualmie National 
        Forest Proposed 1996 Boundary Modification'' dated July, 1996. 
        Such map, together with a legal description of all lands 
        included in the boundary adjustment, shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of 
        the Forest Service in Washington, District of Columbia.
            (b) Rule for land and water conservation fund.--For the 
        purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
        Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundary of the Snoqualmie 
        National Forest, as modified pursuant to subsection (a), shall 
        be considered to be the boundary of that National Forest as of 
        January 1, 1965.
    Sec. 328. Sugarbush Land Exchange Act of 1996.
            (a) Exchange or sale of land.--
                    (1) If Sugarbush Resort Holdings, Inc. conveys to 
                the United States land acceptable to the Secretary of 
                Agriculture that is at least equal in value to the 
                value of the land described in subsection (a)(2), makes 
                a payment of cash at least equal to that value, or 
                conveys land and makes a payment of cash that in 
                combination are at least equal to that value, the 
                Secretary, subject to valid existing rights, shall, 
                under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
                prescribe, convey all right, title, and interest of the 
                United States in and to the land described in 
                subsection (a)(2).
                    (2) Federal land to be exchanged.--The Federal land 
                to be exchanged is approximately 57 acres of federally 
                owned land in the Green Mountain National Forest 
                depicted on the map entitled ``Green Mountain National 
                Forest, Sugarbush Exchange,'' dated December 1995.
                    (3) Lands acquired from Sugarbush Resort Holdings, 
                Inc.--Any land conveyed to the United States in an 
                exchange under subsection (a)(1) shall be subject to 
                such valid existing rights of record as may be 
                acceptable to the Secretary, and the title to the 
                parcel shall conform with the title approval standards 
                applicable to federal land acquisitions.
            (b) Administration of land.--
                    (1) Addition to green mountain national forest.--On 
                approval and acceptance of title by the Secretary, the 
                land acquired by the United States through an exchange 
                or with proceeds from a sale under subsection (a) shall 
                become part of the Green Mountain National Forest, and 
                the boundaries of the National Forest shall be adjusted 
                to include the land.
                    (2) Administration.--Land acquired under this Act 
                shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance 
                with the laws (including regulations) pertaining to the 
                National Forest System.
                    (3) Authority of the secretary.--This section does 
                not limit the authority of the Secretary to adjust the 
                boundaries of the Green Mountain National Forest 
                pursuant to section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (36 
                Stat. 963, chapter 186; 16 U.S.C. 521) (commonly known 
                as the ``Weeks Law'').
                    (4) For the purposes of section 7 of the Land and 
                Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), 
                the boundaries of the Green Mountain National Forest, 
                as adjusted under this Act, shall be considered to be 
                the boundaries of the Green Mountain National Forest as 
                of January 1, 1965.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997''.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 20, 1996.

            Attest:

                                                ROBIN H. CARLE,

                                                                 Clerk.

                              By Linda Nave,

                                                          Deputy Clerk.
                                     

                                                       Calendar No. 495

104th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3662

                          [Report No. 104-319]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 21, 1996

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                  July  (legislative day, July ), 1996

                        Reported with amendments