[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3064 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3064

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
   the sixth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine


                                 An Act


 
    Making appropriations for the District of Columbia, and for the 
  Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
                             other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the District of Columbia, and for the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                               DIVISION A

                  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA APPROPRIATIONS

    For programs, projects, or activities in the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2000, provided as follows, to be effective as if it 
had been enacted into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                                 An Act


Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and 
other activities chargeable in whole or in part against revenues of said 
 District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                                purposes.

                TITLE I--FISCAL YEAR 2000 APPROPRIATIONS

                             FEDERAL FUNDS

              Federal Payment for Resident Tuition Support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for a program to 
be administered by the Mayor for District of Columbia resident tuition 
support, subject to the enactment of authorizing legislation for such 
program by Congress, $17,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such funds may be used on behalf of eligible District of 
Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the difference between 
in-State and out-of-State tuition at public institutions of higher 
education, usable at both public and private institutions of higher 
education: Provided further, That the awarding of such funds may be 
prioritized on the basis of a resident's academic merit and such other 
factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That if the authorized 
program is a nationwide program, the Mayor may expend up to 
$17,000,000: Provided further, That if the authorized program is for a 
limited number of States, the Mayor may expend up to $11,000,000: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia may expend funds other 
than the funds provided under this heading, including local tax 
revenues and contributions, to support such program.

        Federal Payment for Incentives for Adoption of Children

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia to create 
incentives to promote the adoption of children in the District of 
Columbia foster care system, $5,000,000: Provided, That such funds 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001 and shall be used in 
accordance with a program established by the Mayor and the Council of 
the District of Columbia and approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That funds provided under this heading may be used to cover 
the costs to the District of Columbia of providing tax credits to 
offset the costs incurred by individuals in adopting children in the 
District of Columbia foster care system and in providing for the health 
care needs of such children, in accordance with legislation enacted by 
the District of Columbia government.

         Federal Payment to the Citizen Complaint Review Board

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for 
administrative expenses of the Citizen Complaint Review Board, 
$500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

          Federal Payment to the Department of Human Services

    For a Federal payment to the Department of Human Services for a 
mentoring program and for hotline services, $250,000.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For salaries and expenses of the District of Columbia Corrections 
Trustee, $176,000,000 for the administration and operation of 
correctional facilities and for the administrative operating costs of 
the Office of the Corrections Trustee, as authorized by section 11202 
of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712): Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated in this 
Act for the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, That 
in addition to the funds provided under this heading, the District of 
Columbia Corrections Trustee may use a portion of the interest earned 
on the Federal payment made to the Trustee under the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1998, (not to exceed $4,600,000) to carry 
out the activities funded under this heading.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$99,714,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $7,209,000; for the District of Columbia Superior 
Court, $68,351,000; for the District of Columbia Court System, 
$16,154,000; and $8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001, for capital improvements for District of Columbia courthouse 
facilities: Provided, That of the amounts available for operations of 
the District of Columbia Courts, not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be for 
the design of an Integrated Justice Information System and that such 
funds shall be used in accordance with a plan and design developed by 
the courts and approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies, with 
payroll and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis 
with the General Services Administration (GSA), said services to 
include the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which 
shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

            Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under the District of 
Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel appointed in 
proceedings in the Family Division of the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code, and 
payments for counsel authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Code 
(relating to representation provided under the District of Columbia 
Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act 
of 1986), $33,336,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the funds provided in this Act under the heading ``Federal Payment 
to the District of Columbia Courts'' (other than the $8,000,000 
provided under such heading for capital improvements for District of 
Columbia courthouse facilities) may also be used for payments under 
this heading: Provided further, That in addition to the funds provided 
under this heading, the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in 
the District of Columbia may use a portion (not to exceed $1,200,000) 
of the interest earned on the Federal payment made to the District of 
Columbia courts under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
1999, together with funds provided in this Act under the heading 
``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts'' (other than the 
$8,000,000 provided under such heading for capital improvements for 
District of Columbia courthouse facilities), to make payments described 
under this heading for obligations incurred during fiscal year 1999 if 
the Comptroller General certifies that the amount of obligations 
lawfully incurred for such payments during fiscal year 1999 exceeds the 
obligational authority otherwise available for making such payments: 
Provided further, That such funds shall be administered by the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, this 
appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies, with payroll 
and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis with the 
General Services Administration (GSA), said services to include the 
preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which shall be 
submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

 Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
                      for the District of Columbia

    For salaries and expenses of the Court Services and Offender 
Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, as authorized by the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997, (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712), $93,800,000, of which 
$58,600,000 shall be for necessary expenses of Parole Revocation, Adult 
Probation, Offender Supervision, and Sex Offender Registration, to 
include expenses relating to supervision of adults subject to 
protection orders or provision of services for or related to such 
persons; $17,400,000 shall be available to the Public Defender Service; 
and $17,800,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts 
under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: 
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $20,492,000 shall be used in support of universal drug 
screening and testing for those individuals on pretrial, probation, or 
parole supervision with continued testing, intermediate sanctions, and 
treatment for those identified in need, of which $7,000,000 shall be 
for treatment services.

                   Children's National Medical Center

    For a Federal contribution to the Children's National Medical 
Center in the District of Columbia, $2,500,000 for construction, 
renovation, and information technology infrastructure costs associated 
with establishing community pediatric health clinics for high risk 
children in medically underserved areas of the District of Columbia.

           Federal Payment for Metropolitan Police Department

    For payment to the Metropolitan Police Department, $1,000,000, for 
a program to eliminate open air drug trafficking in the District of 
Columbia: Provided, That the Chief of Police shall provide quarterly 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives by the 15th calendar day after the end of each quarter 
beginning December 31, 1999, on the status of the project financed 
under this heading.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $162,356,000 (including 
$137,134,000 from local funds, $11,670,000 from Federal funds, and 
$13,552,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall be available from 
this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That any 
program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available for 
the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal sources 
shall be used to support the operations or activities of the Statehood 
Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for 
Admission to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: 
Provided further, That all employees permanently assigned to work in 
the Office of the Mayor shall be paid from funds allocated to the 
Office of the Mayor: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law now or hereafter enacted, no Member of the District of 
Columbia Council eligible to earn a part-time salary of $92,520, 
exclusive of the Council Chairman, shall be paid a salary of more than 
$84,635 during fiscal year 2000.

                  Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $190,335,000 (including 
$52,911,000 from local funds, $84,751,000 from Federal funds, and 
$52,673,000 from other funds), of which $15,000,000 collected by the 
District of Columbia in the form of BID tax revenue shall be paid to 
the respective BIDs pursuant to the Business Improvement Districts Act 
of 1996 (D.C. Law 11-134; D.C. Code, sec. 1-2271 et seq.), and the 
Business Improvement Districts Temporary Amendment Act of 1997 (D.C. 
Law 12-23): Provided, That such funds are available for acquiring 
services provided by the General Services Administration: Provided 
further, That Business Improvement Districts shall be exempt from taxes 
levied by the District of Columbia.

                       Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, including purchase or lease of 135 
passenger-carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for 
police-type use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, 
$778,770,000 (including $565,511,000 from local funds, $29,012,000 from 
Federal funds, and $184,247,000 from other funds): Provided, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to replace not to exceed 
25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Department of Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services of the District of Columbia is authorized to replace 
not to exceed five passenger-carrying vehicles annually whenever the 
cost of repair to any damaged vehicle exceeds three-fourths of the cost 
of the replacement: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall 
be available from this appropriation for the Chief of Police for the 
prevention and detection of crime: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on efforts to increase efficiency and improve the 
professionalism in the department: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, or Mayor's Order 86-45, 
issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan Police Department's delegated 
small purchase authority shall be $500,000: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government may not require the Metropolitan Police 
Department to submit to any other procurement review process, or to 
obtain the approval of or be restricted in any manner by any official 
or employee of the District of Columbia government, for purchases that 
do not exceed $500,000: Provided further, That the Mayor shall 
reimburse the District of Columbia National Guard for expenses incurred 
in connection with services that are performed in emergencies by the 
National Guard in a militia status and are requested by the Mayor, in 
amounts that shall be jointly determined and certified as due and 
payable for these services by the Mayor and the Commanding General of 
the District of Columbia National Guard: Provided further, That such 
sums as may be necessary for reimbursement to the District of Columbia 
National Guard under the preceding proviso shall be available from this 
appropriation, and the availability of the sums shall be deemed as 
constituting payment in advance for emergency services involved: 
Provided further, That the Metropolitan Police Department is authorized 
to maintain 3,800 sworn officers, with leave for a 50 officer 
attrition: Provided further, That no more than 15 members of the 
Metropolitan Police Department shall be detailed or assigned to the 
Executive Protection Unit, until the Chief of Police submits a 
recommendation to the Council for its review: Provided further, That 
$100,000 shall be available for inmates released on medical and 
geriatric parole: Provided further, That commencing on December 31, 
1999, the Metropolitan Police Department shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives, 
quarterly reports on the status of crime reduction in each of the 83 
police service areas established throughout the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That up to $700,000 in local funds shall be available 
for the operations of the Citizen Complaint Review Board.

                        Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $867,411,000 (including $721,847,000 from 
local funds, $120,951,000 from Federal funds, and $24,613,000 from 
other funds), to be allocated as follows: $713,197,000 (including 
$600,936,000 from local funds, $106,213,000 from Federal funds, and 
$6,048,000 from other funds), for the public schools of the District of 
Columbia; $10,700,000 from local funds for the District of Columbia 
Teachers' Retirement Fund; $17,000,000 from local funds, previously 
appropriated in this Act as a Federal payment, for resident tuition 
support at public and private institutions of higher learning for 
eligible District of Columbia residents; $27,885,000 from local funds 
for public charter schools: Provided, That if the entirety of this 
allocation has not been provided as payments to any public charter 
schools currently in operation through the per pupil funding formula, 
the funds shall be available for new public charter schools on a per 
pupil basis: Provided further, That $480,000 of this amount shall be 
available to the District of Columbia Public Charter School Board for 
administrative costs; $72,347,000 (including $40,491,000 from local 
funds, $13,536,000 from Federal funds, and $18,320,000 from other 
funds) for the University of the District of Columbia; $24,171,000 
(including $23,128,000 from local funds, $798,000 from Federal funds, 
and $245,000 from other funds) for the Public Library; $2,111,000 
(including $1,707,000 from local funds and $404,000 from Federal funds) 
for the Commission on the Arts and Humanities: Provided further, That 
the public schools of the District of Columbia are authorized to accept 
not to exceed 31 motor vehicles for exclusive use in the driver 
education program: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the 
Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the President of the University 
of the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall 
be available from this appropriation for official purposes: Provided 
further, That none of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the salaries of any District of Columbia Public School 
teacher, principal, administrator, official, or employee who knowingly 
provides false enrollment or attendance information under article II, 
section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for compulsory school 
attendance, for the taking of a school census in the District of 
Columbia, and for other purposes'', approved February 4, 1925 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 31-401 et seq.): Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall not be available to subsidize the education of any nonresident of 
the District of Columbia at any District of Columbia public elementary 
and secondary school during fiscal year 2000 unless the nonresident 
pays tuition to the District of Columbia at a rate that covers 100 
percent of the costs incurred by the District of Columbia which are 
attributable to the education of the nonresident (as established by the 
Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public Schools): Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall not be available to subsidize 
the education of nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the 
University of the District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of 
the University of the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, a tuition rate schedule that will establish 
the tuition rate for nonresident students at a level no lower than the 
nonresident tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of 
higher education in the metropolitan area: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia Public Schools shall not spend less than 
$365,500,000 on local schools through the Weighted Student Formula in 
fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
Columbia shall apportion from the budget of the District of Columbia 
Public Schools a sum totaling 5 percent of the total budget to be set 
aside until the current student count for Public and Charter schools 
has been completed, and that this amount shall be apportioned between 
the Public and Charter schools based on their respective student 
population count: Provided further, That the District of Columbia 
Public Schools may spend $500,000 to engage in a Schools Without 
Violence program based on a model developed by the University of North 
Carolina, located in Greensboro, North Carolina.

                         Human Support Services

    Human support services, $1,526,361,000 (including $635,373,000 from 
local funds, $875,814,000 from Federal funds, and $15,174,000 from 
other funds): Provided, That $25,150,000 of this appropriation, to 
remain available until expended, shall be available solely for District 
of Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That 
a peer review committee shall be established to review medical payments 
and the type of service received by a disability compensation claimant: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia shall not provide free 
government services such as water, sewer, solid waste disposal or 
collection, utilities, maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any 
legally constituted private nonprofit organization, as defined in 
section 411(5) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (101 
Stat. 485; Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11371), providing emergency 
shelter services in the District, if the District would not be 
qualified to receive reimbursement pursuant to such Act (101 Stat. 485; 
Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle 
for use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by 
the Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-
carrying vehicles, $271,395,000 (including $258,341,000 from local 
funds, $3,099,000 from Federal funds, and $9,955,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for collecting 
ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business.

                         Receivership Programs

    For all agencies of the District of Columbia government under court 
ordered receivership, $342,077,000 (including $217,606,000 from local 
funds, $106,111,000 from Federal funds, and $18,360,000 from other 
funds).

                         Workforce Investments

    For workforce investments, $8,500,000 from local funds, to be 
transferred by the Mayor of the District of Columbia within the various 
appropriation headings in this Act for which employees are properly 
payable.

                                Reserve

    For a reserve to be established by the Chief Financial Officer of 
the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, $150,000,000.

District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                               Authority

    For the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, established by section 101(a) of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 97; Public Law 104-8), $3,140,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds contained in this Act may be used to pay any 
compensation of the Executive Director or General Counsel of the 
Authority at a rate in excess of the maximum rate of compensation which 
may be paid to such individual during fiscal year 2000 under section 
102 of such Act, as determined by the Comptroller General (as described 
in GAO letter report B-279095.2).

                    Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For payment of principal, interest and certain fees directly 
resulting from borrowing by the District of Columbia to fund District 
of Columbia capital projects as authorized by sections 462, 475, and 
490 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 
1973, as amended, and that funds shall be allocated for expenses 
associated with the Wilson Building, $328,417,000 from local funds: 
Provided, That for equipment leases, the Mayor may finance $27,527,000 
of equipment cost, plus cost of issuance not to exceed 2 percent of the 
par amount being financed on a lease purchase basis with a maturity not 
to exceed 5 years: Provided further, That $5,300,000 is allocated to 
the Metropolitan Police Department, $3,200,000 for the Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services Department, $350,000 for the Department of 
Corrections, $15,949,000 for the Department of Public Works and 
$2,728,000 for the Public Benefit Corporation.

                Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $38,286,000 from local 
funds, as authorized by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (105 Stat. 540; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321(a)(1)).

              Payment of Interest on Short-Term Borrowing

    For payment of interest on short-term borrowing, $9,000,000 from 
local funds.

                     Certificates of Participation

    For lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of 
Participation involving the land site underlying the building located 
at One Judiciary Square, $7,950,000 from local funds.

                 Optical and Dental Insurance Payments

    For optical and dental insurance payments, $1,295,000 from local 
funds.

                           Productivity Bank

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall finance 
projects totaling $20,000,000 in local funds that result in cost 
savings or additional revenues, by an amount equal to such financing: 
Provided, That the Mayor shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate by the 15th calendar day after the end of each quarter beginning 
December 31, 1999, on the status of the projects financed under this 
heading.

                       Productivity Bank Savings

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall make 
reductions totaling $20,000,000 in local funds. The reductions are to 
be allocated to projects funded through the Productivity Bank that 
produce cost savings or additional revenues in an amount equal to the 
Productivity Bank financing: Provided, That the Mayor shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate by the 15th calendar day after the end 
of each quarter beginning December 31, 1999, on the status of the cost 
savings or additional revenues funded under this heading.

                   Procurement and Management Savings

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, under the 
direction of the Mayor and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, shall make 
reductions of $14,457,000 for general supply schedule savings and 
$7,000,000 for management reform savings, in local funds to one or more 
of the appropriation headings in this Act: Provided, That the Mayor 
shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate by the 15th calendar day 
after the end of each quarter beginning December 31, 1999, on the 
status of the general supply schedule savings and management reform 
savings projected under this heading.

                       ENTERPRISE AND OTHER FUNDS

         Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For operation of the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington 
Aqueduct, $279,608,000 from other funds (including $236,075,000 for the 
Water and Sewer Authority and $43,533,000 for the Washington Aqueduct) 
of which $35,222,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the District's 
debt service fund for repayment of loans and interest incurred for 
capital improvement projects.
    For construction projects, $197,169,000, as authorized by the Act 
entitled ``An Act authorizing the laying of watermains and service 
sewers in the District of Columbia, the levying of assessments 
therefor, and for other purposes'' (33 Stat. 244; Public Law 58-140; 
D.C. Code, sec. 43-1512 et seq.): Provided, That the requirements and 
restrictions that are applicable to general fund capital improvements 
projects and set forth in this Act under the Capital Outlay 
appropriation title shall apply to projects approved under this 
appropriation title.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established 
by the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1982 (95 Stat. 1174 and 1175; Public Law 97-91), 
for the purpose of implementing the Law to Legalize Lotteries, Daily 
Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for Charitable Purposes in the 
District of Columbia (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, sec. 2-2501 et seq. 
and sec. 22-1516 et seq.), $234,400,000: Provided, That the District of 
Columbia shall identify the source of funding for this appropriation 
title from the District's own locally generated revenues: Provided 
further, That no revenues from Federal sources shall be used to support 
the operations or activities of the Lottery and Charitable Games 
Control Board.

                  Sports and Entertainment Commission

    For the Sports and Entertainment Commission, $10,846,000 from other 
funds for expenses incurred by the Armory Board in the exercise of its 
powers granted by the Act entitled ``An Act To Establish A District of 
Columbia Armory Board, and for other purposes'' (62 Stat. 339; D.C. 
Code, sec. 2-301 et seq.) and the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 
1957 (71 Stat. 619; Public Law 85-300; D.C. Code, sec. 2-321 et seq.): 
Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a budget for the Armory Board for 
the forthcoming fiscal year as required by section 442(b) of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 824; Public Law 93-198; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-301(b)).

  District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation

    For the District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit 
Corporation, established by D.C. Law 11-212; D.C. Code, sec. 32-262.2, 
$133,443,000 of which $44,435,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
general fund and $89,008,000 from other funds.

                 District of Columbia Retirement Board

    For the District of Columbia Retirement Board, established by 
section 121 of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979 
(93 Stat. 866; D.C. Code, sec. 1-711), $9,892,000 from the earnings of 
the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, investment, 
and other fees and administrative expenses of the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board: Provided, That the District of Columbia Retirement 
Board shall provide to the Congress and to the Council of the District 
of Columbia a quarterly report of the allocations of charges by fund 
and of expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for transmittal 
to the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized accounting of 
the planned use of appropriated funds in time for each annual budget 
submission and the actual use of such funds in time for each annual 
audited financial report: Provided further, That section 121(c)(1) of 
the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
711(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``the total amount to which a member 
may be entitled'' and all that follows and inserting the following: 
``the total amount to which a member may be entitled under this 
subsection during a year (beginning with 1998) may not exceed $5,000, 
except that in the case of the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman 
of the Investment Committee of the Board, such amount may not exceed 
$7,500 (beginning with 2000).''.

                      Correctional Industries Fund

    For the Correctional Industries Fund, established by the District 
of Columbia Correctional Industries Establishment Act (78 Stat. 1000; 
Public Law 88-622), $1,810,000 from other funds.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $50,226,000 
from other funds.

                             Capital Outlay


                         (Including Rescissions)

    For construction projects, $1,260,524,000 of which $929,450,000 is 
from local funds, $54,050,000 is from the highway trust fund, and 
$277,024,000 is from Federal funds, and a rescission of $41,886,500 
from local funds appropriated under this heading in prior fiscal years, 
for a net amount of $1,218,637,500 to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That funds for use of each capital project implementing 
agency shall be managed and controlled in accordance with all 
procedures and limitations established under the Financial Management 
System: Provided further, That all funds provided by this appropriation 
title shall be available only for the specific projects and purposes 
intended: Provided further, That notwithstanding the foregoing, all 
authorizations for capital outlay projects, except those projects 
covered by the first sentence of section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 90-495; D.C. Code, sec. 
7-134, note), for which funds are provided by this appropriation title, 
shall expire on September 30, 2001, except authorizations for projects 
as to which funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to 
September 30, 2001: Provided further, That upon expiration of any such 
project authorization, the funds provided herein for the project shall 
lapse.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 102. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all vouchers 
covering expenditures of appropriations contained in this Act shall be 
audited before payment by the designated certifying official, and the 
vouchers as approved shall be paid by checks issued by the designated 
disbursing official.
    Sec. 103. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations in this Act shall be available, when 
authorized by the Mayor, for allowances for privately owned automobiles 
and motorcycles used for the performance of official duties at rates 
established by the Mayor: Provided, That such rates shall not exceed 
the maximum prevailing rates for such vehicles as prescribed in the 
Federal Property Management Regulations 101-7 (Federal Travel 
Regulations).
    Sec. 105. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for 
expenses of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations 
concerned with the work of the District of Columbia government, when 
authorized by the Mayor: Provided, That in the case of the Council of 
the District of Columbia, funds may be expended with the authorization 
of the chair of the Council.
    Sec. 106. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided, That nothing contained in 
this section shall be construed as modifying or affecting the 
provisions of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the District of Columbia 
Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947 (70 Stat. 78; Public Law 84-460; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 107. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of public assistance without reference to the requirement of 
section 544 of the District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982 
(D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Code, sec. 3-205.44), and for the payment of the 
non-Federal share of funds necessary to qualify for grants under 
subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994.
    Sec. 108. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 109. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be 
used to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the Subcommittee on the District of 
Columbia of the House Committee on Government Reform, the Subcommittee 
on Oversight of Government Management, Restructuring and the District 
of Columbia of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the 
Council of the District of Columbia, or their duly authorized 
representative.
    Sec. 111. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977 
(D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et seq.).
    Sec. 112. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including 
boycott designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 113. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 114. The Mayor shall not borrow any funds for capital projects 
unless the Mayor has obtained prior approval from the Council of the 
District of Columbia, by resolution, identifying the projects and 
amounts to be financed with such borrowings.
    Sec. 115. The Mayor shall not expend any moneys borrowed for 
capital projects for the operating expenses of the District of Columbia 
government.
    Sec. 116. None of the funds provided under this Act to the agencies 
funded by this Act, both Federal and District government agencies, that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for an agency through 
a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) 
eliminates a program, project, or responsibility center; (3) 
establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, limited or 
increased by Congress in this Act; (4) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any program, project, or responsibility center for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (5) reestablishes through 
reprogramming any program or project previously deferred through 
reprogramming; (6) augments existing programs, projects, or 
responsibility centers through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) increases by 20 
percent or more personnel assigned to a specific program, project, or 
responsibility center; unless the Appropriations Committees of both the 
Senate and House of Representatives are notified in writing 30 days in 
advance of any reprogramming as set forth in this section.
    Sec. 117. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of the District of 
Columbia government.
    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to procure passenger automobiles as defined in 
the Automobile Fuel Efficiency Act of 1980 (94 Stat. 1824; Public Law 
96-425; 15 U.S.C. 2001(2)), with an Environmental Protection Agency 
estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to security, emergency 
rescue, or armored vehicles.
    Sec. 119. (a) City Administrator.--The last sentence of section 
422(7) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(7)) is amended by striking ``, not to exceed'' and all that follows 
and inserting a period.
    (b) Board of Directors of Redevelopment Land Agency.--Section 
1108(c)(2)(F) of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive 
Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-612.8(c)(2)(F)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(F) Redevelopment Land Agency board members shall be paid per 
    diem compensation at a rate established by the Mayor, except that 
    such rate may not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
    basic pay for level 15 of the District Schedule for each day 
    (including travel time) during which they are engaged in the actual 
    performance of their duties.''.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Code, sec. 1-601.1 et 
seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(3)), shall apply with respect to the compensation of District of 
Columbia employees: Provided, That for pay purposes, employees of the 
District of Columbia government shall not be subject to the provisions 
of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 121. No later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the District of Columbia the 
new fiscal year 2000 revenue estimates as of the end of the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2000. These estimates shall be used in the 
budget request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001. The 
officially revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the midyear 
report.
    Sec. 122. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth 
in section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-1183.3), except that the 
District of Columbia government or any agency thereof may renew or 
extend sole source contracts for which competition is not feasible or 
practical: Provided, That the determination as to whether to invoke the 
competitive bidding process has been made in accordance with duly 
promulgated rules and procedures and said determination has been 
reviewed and approved by the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 123. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), the term 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be synonymous with and refer 
specifically to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act, 
and any sequestration order shall be applied to each of the accounts 
rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts: Provided, That 
sequestration orders shall not be applied to any account that is 
specifically exempted from sequestration by the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 124. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 
1037; Public Law 99-177), after the amounts appropriated to the 
District of Columbia for the fiscal year involved have been paid to the 
District of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall pay 
to the Secretary of the Treasury, within 15 days after receipt of a 
request therefor from the Secretary of the Treasury, such amounts as 
are sequestered by the order: Provided, That the sequestration 
percentage specified in the order shall be applied proportionately to 
each of the Federal appropriation accounts in this Act that are not 
specifically exempted from sequestration by such Act.
    Sec. 125. (a) An entity of the District of Columbia government may 
accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal year 2000 if--
        (1) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the gift or 
    donation: Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia 
    may accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor; and
        (2) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry out its 
    authorized functions or duties.
    (b) Each entity of the District of Columbia government shall keep 
accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under subsection (a) of this section, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``entity of the 
District of Columbia government'' includes an independent agency of the 
District of Columbia.
    (d) This section shall not apply to the District of Columbia Board 
of Education, which may, pursuant to the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia, accept and use gifts to the public schools 
without prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 126. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 127. (a) The University of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the Mayor, the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority and the Council of the District of 
Columbia no later than 15 calendar days after the end of each quarter a 
report that sets forth--
        (1) current quarter expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
    expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
    projections versus budget broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, and object class, and for all funds, 
    non-appropriated funds, and capital financing;
        (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and the 
    amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
    responsibility center, detailed object, and for all funding 
    sources;
        (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
    annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget to 
    which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of control 
    center and responsibility center, and contract identifying codes 
    used by the University of the District of Columbia; payments made 
    in the last quarter and year-to-date, the total amount of the 
    contract and total payments made for the contract and any 
    modifications, extensions, renewals; and specific modifications 
    made to each contract in the last month;
        (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that have been made 
    by the University of the District of Columbia within the last 
    quarter in compliance with applicable law; and
        (5) changes made in the last quarter to the organizational 
    structure of the University of the District of Columbia, displaying 
    previous and current control centers and responsibility centers, 
    the names of the organizational entities that have been changed, 
    the name of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and 
    the reasons for the structural change.
    (b) The Mayor, the Authority, and the Council shall provide the 
Congress by February 1, 2000, a summary, analysis, and recommendations 
on the information provided in the quarterly reports.
    Sec. 128. Funds authorized or previously appropriated to the 
government of the District of Columbia by this or any other Act to 
procure the necessary hardware and installation of new software, 
conversion, testing, and training to improve or replace its financial 
management system are also available for the acquisition of accounting 
and financial management services and the leasing of necessary 
hardware, software or any other related goods or services, as 
determined by the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 129. (a) None of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the fees of an attorney who represents a party who 
prevails in an action, including an administrative proceeding, brought 
against the District of Columbia Public Schools under the Individuals 
with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) if--
        (1) the hourly rate of compensation of the attorney exceeds 120 
    percent of the hourly rate of compensation under section 11-
    2604(a), District of Columbia Code; or
        (2) the maximum amount of compensation of the attorney exceeds 
    120 percent of the maximum amount of compensation under section 11-
    2604(b)(1), District of Columbia Code, except that compensation and 
    reimbursement in excess of such maximum may be approved for 
    extended or complex representation in accordance with section 11-
    2604(c), District of Columbia Code.
    (b) Notwithstanding the preceding subsection, if the Mayor, 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority and the Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public 
Schools concur in a Memorandum of Understanding setting forth a new 
rate and amount of compensation, then such new rates shall apply in 
lieu of the rates set forth in the preceding subsection.
    Sec. 130. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 131. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 
(D.C. Law 9-114; D.C. Code, sec. 36-1401 et seq.) or to otherwise 
implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, 
cohabiting couples (whether homosexual, heterosexual, or lesbian), 
including but not limited to registration for the purpose of extending 
employment, health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the 
same basis that such benefits are extended to legally married couples.
    Sec. 132. The Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public 
Schools shall submit to the Congress, the Mayor, the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, 
and the Council of the District of Columbia no later than 15 calendar 
days after the end of each quarter a report that sets forth--
        (1) current quarter expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
    expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
    projections versus budget, broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, agency reporting code, and object 
    class, and for all funds, including capital financing;
        (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and the 
    amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
    responsibility center, detailed object, and agency reporting code, 
    and for all funding sources;
        (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
    annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget to 
    which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of control 
    center, responsibility center, and agency reporting code; and 
    contract identifying codes used by the District of Columbia Public 
    Schools; payments made in the last quarter and year-to-date, the 
    total amount of the contract and total payments made for the 
    contract and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and specific 
    modifications made to each contract in the last month;
        (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that are required to 
    be, and have been, submitted to the Board of Education; and
        (5) changes made in the last quarter to the organizational 
    structure of the District of Columbia Public Schools, displaying 
    previous and current control centers and responsibility centers, 
    the names of the organizational entities that have been changed, 
    the name of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and 
    the reasons for the structural change.
    Sec. 133. (a) In General.--The Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of Columbia 
shall annually compile an accurate and verifiable report on the 
positions and employees in the public school system and the university, 
respectively. The annual report shall set forth--
        (1) the number of validated schedule A positions in the 
    District of Columbia public schools and the University of the 
    District of Columbia for fiscal year 1999, fiscal year 2000, and 
    thereafter on full-time equivalent basis, including a compilation 
    of all positions by control center, responsibility center, funding 
    source, position type, position title, pay plan, grade, and annual 
    salary; and
        (2) a compilation of all employees in the District of Columbia 
    public schools and the University of the District of Columbia as of 
    the preceding December 31, verified as to its accuracy in 
    accordance with the functions that each employee actually performs, 
    by control center, responsibility center, agency reporting code, 
    program (including funding source), activity, location for 
    accounting purposes, job title, grade and classification, annual 
    salary, and position control number.
    (b) Submission.--The annual report required by subsection (a) of 
this section shall be submitted to the Congress, the Mayor, the 
District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
Authority, not later than February 15 of each year.
    Sec. 134. (a) No later than November 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, and each succeeding year, the Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of Columbia 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, 
the District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the public 
school system and the University of the District of Columbia for such 
fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation 
and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-
personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the Superintendent 
of the District of Columbia Public Schools and the University of the 
District of Columbia submit to the Mayor of the District of Columbia 
for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission to the Council of the 
District of Columbia pursuant to section 442 of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 135. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, acting on behalf of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools (DCPS) in formulating the DCPS budget, the 
Board of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia, the 
Board of Library Trustees, and the Board of Governors of the University 
of the District of Columbia School of Law shall vote on and approve the 
respective annual or revised budgets for such entities before 
submission to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for inclusion in 
the Mayor's budget submission to the Council of the District of 
Columbia in accordance with section 442 of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), or before 
submitting their respective budgets directly to the Council.
    Sec. 136. (a) Ceiling on Total Operating Expenses.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses 
    for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2000 under the heading 
    ``Division of Expenses'' shall not exceed the lesser of--
            (A) the sum of the total revenues of the District of 
        Columbia for such fiscal year; or
            (B) $5,515,379,000 (of which $152,753,000 shall be from 
        intra-District funds and $3,113,854,000 shall be from local 
        funds), which amount may be increased by the following:
                (i) proceeds of one-time transactions, which are 
            expended for emergency or unanticipated operating or 
            capital needs approved by the District of Columbia 
            Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
            Authority; or
                (ii) after notification to the Council, additional 
            expenditures which the Chief Financial Officer of the 
            District of Columbia certifies will produce additional 
            revenues during such fiscal year at least equal to 200 
            percent of such additional expenditures, and that are 
            approved by the Authority.
        (2) Enforcement.--The Chief Financial Officer of the District 
    of Columbia and the Authority shall take such steps as are 
    necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets the 
    requirements of this section, including the apportioning by the 
    Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and funds made 
    available to the District during fiscal year 2000, except that the 
    Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses 
    any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations issued 
    for capital projects.
    (b) Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in Ceiling.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Mayor, in 
    consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, during a control 
    year, as defined in section 305(4) of the District of Columbia 
    Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995 
    (Public Law 104-8; 109 Stat. 152), may accept, obligate, and expend 
    Federal, private, and other grants received by the District 
    government that are not reflected in the amounts appropriated in 
    this Act.
        (2) Requirement of chief financial officer report and authority 
    approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant may be 
    accepted, obligated, or expended pursuant to paragraph (1) until--
            (A) the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia 
        submits to the Authority a report setting forth detailed 
        information regarding such grant; and
            (B) the Authority has reviewed and approved the acceptance, 
        obligation, and expenditure of such grant in accordance with 
        review and approval procedures consistent with the provisions 
        of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Act of 1995.
        (3) Prohibition on spending in anticipation of approval or 
    receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the general 
    fund or other funds of the District government in anticipation of 
    the approval or receipt of a grant under paragraph (2)(B) of this 
    subsection or in anticipation of the approval or receipt of a 
    Federal, private, or other grant not subject to such paragraph.
        (4) Quarterly reports.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
    District of Columbia shall prepare a quarterly report setting forth 
    detailed information regarding all Federal, private, and other 
    grants subject to this subsection. Each such report shall be 
    submitted to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to the 
    Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
    the Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the quarter 
    covered by the report.
    (c) Report on Expenditures by Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.--Not later than 20 calendar days after 
the end of each fiscal quarter starting October 1, 1999, the Authority 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Government Reform 
of the House, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
providing an itemized accounting of all non-appropriated funds 
obligated or expended by the Authority for the quarter. The report 
shall include information on the date, amount, purpose, and vendor 
name, and a description of the services or goods provided with respect 
to the expenditures of such funds.
    Sec. 137. If a department or agency of the government of the 
District of Columbia is under the administration of a court-appointed 
receiver or other court-appointed official during fiscal year 2000 or 
any succeeding fiscal year, the receiver or official shall prepare and 
submit to the Mayor, for inclusion in the annual budget of the District 
of Columbia for the year, annual estimates of the expenditures and 
appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the 
department or agency. All such estimates shall be forwarded by the 
Mayor to the Council, for its action pursuant to sections 446 and 
603(c) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, without revision but 
subject to the Mayor's recommendations. Notwithstanding any provision 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 774; Public Law 93-
198) the Council may comment or make recommendations concerning such 
annual estimates but shall have no authority under such Act to revise 
such estimates.
    Sec. 138. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, an employee of the District of Columbia public schools 
shall be--
        (1) classified as an Educational Service employee;
        (2) placed under the personnel authority of the Board of 
    Education; and
        (3) subject to all Board of Education rules.
    (b) School-based personnel shall constitute a separate competitive 
area from nonschool-based personnel who shall not compete with school-
based personnel for retention purposes.
    Sec. 139. (a) Restrictions on Use of Official Vehicles.--Except as 
otherwise provided in this section, none of the funds made available by 
this Act or by any other Act may be used to provide any officer or 
employee of the District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless 
the officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of the 
officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of this 
paragraph, the term ``official duties'' does not include travel between 
the officer's or employee's residence and workplace (except: (1) in the 
case of an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police Department 
who resides in the District of Columbia or is otherwise designated by 
the Chief of the Department; (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, 
an officer or employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
is on call 24 hours a day; (3) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; 
and (4) the Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia).
    (b) Inventory of Vehicles.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia shall submit, by November 15, 1999, an inventory, 
as of September 30, 1999, of all vehicles owned, leased or operated by 
the District of Columbia government. The inventory shall include, but 
not be limited to, the department to which the vehicle is assigned; the 
year and make of the vehicle; the acquisition date and cost; the 
general condition of the vehicle; annual operating and maintenance 
costs; current mileage; and whether the vehicle is allowed to be taken 
home by a District officer or employee and if so, the officer or 
employee's title and resident location.
    Sec. 140. (a) Source of Payment for Employees Detailed Within 
Government.--For purposes of determining the amount of funds expended 
by any entity within the District of Columbia government during fiscal 
year 2000 and each succeeding fiscal year, any expenditures of the 
District government attributable to any officer or employee of the 
District government who provides services which are within the 
authority and jurisdiction of the entity (including any portion of the 
compensation paid to the officer or employee attributable to the time 
spent in providing such services) shall be treated as expenditures made 
from the entity's budget, without regard to whether the officer or 
employee is assigned to the entity or otherwise treated as an officer 
or employee of the entity.
    (b) Modification of Reduction in Force Procedures.--The District of 
Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), is further amended in section 2408(a) by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''; in subsection (b), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''; in subsection (i), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''; and in subsection (k), by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''.
    Sec. 141. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later 
than 120 days after the date that a District of Columbia Public Schools 
(DCPS) student is referred for evaluation or assessment--
        (1) the District of Columbia Board of Education, or its 
    successor, and DCPS shall assess or evaluate a student who may have 
    a disability and who may require special education services; and
        (2) if a student is classified as having a disability, as 
    defined in section 101(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities 
    Education Act (84 Stat. 175; 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) or in section 
    7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 359; 29 U.S.C. 
    706(8)), the Board and DCPS shall place that student in an 
    appropriate program of special education services.
    Sec. 142. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products to 
    the greatest extent practicable.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    agency of the Federal or District of Columbia government shall 
    provide to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the 
    statement made in paragraph (1) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 143. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
purposes of the annual independent audit of the District of Columbia 
government (including the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority) for fiscal year 2000 unless--
        (1) the audit is conducted by the Inspector General of the 
    District of Columbia pursuant to section 208(a)(4) of the District 
    of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985 (D.C. Code, sec. 1-
    1182.8(a)(4)); and
        (2) the audit includes a comparison of audited actual year-end 
    results with the revenues submitted in the budget document for such 
    year and the appropriations enacted into law for such year.
    Sec. 144. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any 
office, agency or entity to expend funds for programs or functions for 
which a reorganization plan is required but has not been approved by 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority. Appropriations made by this Act for such programs 
or functions are conditioned only on the approval by the Authority of 
the required reorganization plans.
    Sec. 145. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, the evaluation process and instruments for evaluating 
District of Columbia Public School employees shall be a non-negotiable 
item for collective bargaining purposes.
    Sec. 146. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used by 
the District of Columbia Corporation Counsel or any other officer or 
entity of the District government to provide assistance for any 
petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    Sec. 147. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
transfer or confine inmates classified above the medium security level, 
as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons classification instrument, 
to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center located in Youngstown, Ohio.
    Sec. 148. (a) Section 202(i) of the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-
8), as added by section 155 of the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1999, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(j) Reserve.--
        ``(1) In general.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000, the plan or 
    budget submitted pursuant to this Act shall contain $150,000,000 
    for a reserve to be established by the Mayor, Council of the 
    District of Columbia, Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
    Columbia, and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
    Management Assistance Authority.
        ``(2) Conditions on use.--The reserve funds--
            ``(A) shall only be expended according to criteria 
        established by the Chief Financial Officer and approved by the 
        Mayor, Council of the District of Columbia, and District of 
        Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
        Authority, but, in no case may any of the reserve funds be 
        expended until any other surplus funds have been used;
            ``(B) shall not be used to fund the agencies of the 
        District of Columbia government under court ordered 
        receivership; and
            ``(C) shall not be used to fund shortfalls in the projected 
        reductions budgeted in the budget proposed by the District of 
        Columbia government for general supply schedule savings and 
        management reform savings.
        ``(3) Report requirement.--The Authority shall notify the 
    Appropriations Committees of both the Senate and House of 
    Representatives in writing 30 days in advance of any expenditure of 
    the reserve funds.''.
    (b) Section 202 of such Act (Public Law 104-8), as amended by 
subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Positive Fund Balance.--
        ``(1) In general.--The District of Columbia shall maintain at 
    the end of a fiscal year an annual positive fund balance in the 
    general fund of not less than 4 percent of the projected general 
    fund expenditures for the following fiscal year.
        ``(2) Excess funds.--Of funds remaining in excess of the 
    amounts required by paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) not more than 50 percent may be used for authorized 
        non-recurring expenses; and
            ``(B) not less than 50 percent shall be used to reduce the 
        debt of the District of Columbia.''.
    Sec. 149. (a) No later than November 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority a revised appropriated funds operating budget for all 
agencies of the District of Columbia government for such fiscal year 
that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that 
realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal-
services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District 
of Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 150. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the 
hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.
    Sec. 151. (a) Restrictions on Leases.--Upon the expiration of the 
60-day period that begins on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
none of the funds contained in this Act may be used to make rental 
payments under a lease for the use of real property by the District of 
Columbia government (including any independent agency of the District) 
unless the lease and an abstract of the lease have been filed (by the 
District of Columbia or any other party to the lease) with the central 
office of the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, in an indexed 
registry available for public inspection.
    (b) Additional Restrictions on Current Leases.--
        (1) In general.--Upon the expiration of the 60-day period that 
    begins on the date of the enactment of this Act, in the case of a 
    lease described in paragraph (3), none of the funds contained in 
    this Act may be used to make rental payments under the lease unless 
    the lease is included in periodic reports submitted by the Mayor 
    and Council of the District of Columbia to the Committees on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate 
    describing for each such lease the following information:
            (A) The location of the property involved, the name of the 
        owners of record according to the land records of the District 
        of Columbia, the name of the lessors according to the lease, 
        the rate of payment under the lease, the period of time covered 
        by the lease, and the conditions under which the lease may be 
        terminated.
            (B) The extent to which the property is or is not occupied 
        by the District of Columbia government as of the end of the 
        reporting period involved.
            (C) If the property is not occupied and utilized by the 
        District government as of the end of the reporting period 
        involved, a plan for occupying and utilizing the property 
        (including construction or renovation work) or a status 
        statement regarding any efforts by the District to terminate or 
        renegotiate the lease.
        (2) Timing of reports.--The reports described in paragraph (1) 
    shall be submitted for each calendar quarter (beginning with the 
    quarter ending December 31, 1999) not later than 20 days after the 
    end of the quarter involved, plus an initial report submitted not 
    later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    which shall provide information as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
        (3) Leases described.--A lease described in this paragraph is a 
    lease in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act for the 
    use of real property by the District of Columbia government 
    (including any independent agency of the District) which is not 
    being occupied by the District government (including any 
    independent agency of the District) as of such date or during the 
    60-day period which begins on the date of the enactment of this 
    Act.
    Sec. 152. (a) Management of Existing District Government 
Property.--Upon the expiration of the 60-day period that begins on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, none of the funds contained in this 
Act may be used to enter into a lease (or to make rental payments under 
such a lease) for the use of real property by the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) or to 
purchase real property for the use of the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) or to 
manage real property for the use of the District of Columbia (including 
any independent agency of the District) unless the following conditions 
are met:
        (1) The Mayor and Council of the District of Columbia certify 
    to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
    and Senate that existing real property available to the District 
    (whether leased or owned by the District government) is not 
    suitable for the purposes intended.
        (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, there is made 
    available for sale or lease all real property of the District of 
    Columbia that the Mayor from time-to-time determines is surplus to 
    the needs of the District of Columbia, unless a majority of the 
    members of the Council override the Mayor's determination during 
    the 30-day period which begins on the date the determination is 
    published.
        (3) The Mayor and Council implement a program for the periodic 
    survey of all District property to determine if it is surplus to 
    the needs of the District.
        (4) The Mayor and Council within 60 days of the date of the 
    enactment of this Act have filed with the Committees on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate, the 
    Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
    Representatives, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate a report which provides a comprehensive plan for the 
    management of District of Columbia real property assets, and are 
    proceeding with the implementation of the plan.
    (b) Termination of Provisions.--If the District of Columbia enacts 
legislation to reform the practices and procedures governing the 
entering into of leases for the use of real property by the District of 
Columbia government and the disposition of surplus real property of the 
District government, the provisions of subsection (a) shall cease to be 
effective upon the effective date of the legislation.
    Sec. 153. Section 603(e)(2)(B) of the Student Loan Marketing 
Association Reorganization Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 
3009-293) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``and public charter'' after ``public''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``Of such amounts and 
    proceeds, $5,000,000 shall be set aside for use as a credit 
    enhancement fund for public charter schools in the District of 
    Columbia, with the administration of the fund (including the making 
    of loans) to be carried out by the Mayor through a committee 
    consisting of three individuals appointed by the Mayor of the 
    District of Columbia and two individuals appointed by the Public 
    Charter School Board established under section 2214 of the District 
    of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995.''.
    Sec. 154. The Mayor, District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority, and the Superintendent of Schools 
shall implement a process to dispose of excess public school real 
property within 90 days of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 155. Section 2003 of the District of Columbia School Reform 
Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; D.C. Code, sec. 31-2851) is amended by 
striking ``during the period'' and ``and ending 5 years after such 
date.''.
    Sec. 156. Section 2206(c) of the District of Columbia School Reform 
Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; D.C. Code, sec. 31-2853.16(c)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``, except that a 
preference in admission may be given to an applicant who is a sibling 
of a student already attending or selected for admission to the public 
charter school in which the applicant is seeking enrollment.''.
    Sec. 157. (a) Transfer of Funds.--There is hereby transferred from 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority (hereafter referred to as the ``Authority'') to 
the District of Columbia the sum of $18,000,000 for severance payments 
to individuals separated from employment during fiscal year 2000 (under 
such terms and conditions as the Mayor considers appropriate), expanded 
contracting authority of the Mayor, and the implementation of a system 
of managed competition among public and private providers of goods and 
services by and on behalf of the District of Columbia: Provided, That 
such funds shall be used only in accordance with a plan agreed to by 
the Council and the Mayor and approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That the Authority and the Mayor shall coordinate the spending 
of funds for this program so that continuous progress is made. The 
Authority shall release said funds, on a quarterly basis, to reimburse 
such expenses, so long as the Authority certifies that the expenses 
reduce re-occurring future costs at an annual ratio of at least 2 to 1 
relative to the funds provided, and that the program is in accordance 
with the best practices of municipal government.
    (b) Source of Funds.--The amount transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be derived from interest earned on accounts held by the Authority 
on behalf of the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 158. (a) In General.--The District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (hereafter referred 
to as the ``Authority''), working with the Commonwealth of Virginia and 
the Director of the National Park Service, shall carry out a project to 
complete all design requirements and all requirements for compliance 
with the National Environmental Policy Act for the construction of 
expanded lane capacity for the Fourteenth Street Bridge.
    (b) Source of Funds; Transfer.--For purposes of carrying out the 
project under subsection (a), there is hereby transferred to the 
Authority from the District of Columbia dedicated highway fund 
established pursuant to section 3(a) of the District of Columbia 
Emergency Highway Relief Act (Public Law 104-21; D.C. Code, sec. 7-
134.2(a)) an amount not to exceed $5,000,000.
    Sec. 159. (a) In General.--The Mayor of the District of Columbia 
shall carry out through the Army Corps of Engineers, an Anacostia River 
environmental cleanup program.
    (b) Source of Funds.--There are hereby transferred to the Mayor 
from the escrow account held by the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority pursuant to section 
134 of division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 
2681-552), for infrastructure needs of the District of Columbia, 
$5,000,000.
    Sec. 160. (a) Prohibiting Payment of Administrative Costs From 
Fund.--Section 16(e) of the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act 
of 1996 (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435(e)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and administrative costs necessary to carry 
    out this chapter''; and
        (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
    following: ``, and no monies in the Fund may be used for any other 
    purpose.''.
    (b) Maintenance of Fund in Treasury of the United States.--
        (1) In general.--Section 16(a) of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-
    435(a)) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting 
    the following: ``The Fund shall be maintained as a separate fund in 
    the Treasury of the United States. All amounts deposited to the 
    credit of the Fund are appropriated without fiscal year limitation 
    to make payments as authorized under subsection (e).''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 16 of such Act (D.C. Code, 
    sec. 3-435) is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (c) Deposit of Other Fees and Receipts Into Fund.--Section 16(c) of 
such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435(c)) is amended by inserting after 
``1997,'' the second place it appears the following: ``any other fines, 
fees, penalties, or assessments that the Court determines necessary to 
carry out the purposes of the Fund,''.
    (d) Annual Transfer of Unobligated Balances to Miscellaneous 
Receipts of Treasury.--Section 16 of such Act (D.C. Code, sec. 3-435), 
as amended by subsection (b)(2), is further amended by inserting after 
subsection (c) the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Any unobligated balance existing in the Fund in excess of 
$250,000 as of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 
2000) shall be transferred to miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury of 
the United States not later than 30 days after the end of the fiscal 
year.''.
    (e) Ratification of Payments and Deposits.--Any payments made from 
or deposits made to the Crime Victims Compensation Fund on or after 
April 9, 1997 are hereby ratified, to the extent such payments and 
deposits are authorized under the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation 
Act of 1996 (D.C. Code, sec. 3-421 et seq.), as amended by this 
section.
    Sec. 161. Certification.--None of the funds contained in this Act 
may be used after the expiration of the 60-day period that begins on 
the date of the enactment of this Act to pay the salary of any chief 
financial officer of any office of the District of Columbia government 
(including any independent agency of the District) who has not filed a 
certification with the Mayor and the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia that the officer understands the duties and 
restrictions applicable to the officer and their agency as a result of 
this Act.
    Sec. 162. The proposed budget of the government of the District of 
Columbia for fiscal year 2001 that is submitted by the District to 
Congress shall specify potential adjustments that might become 
necessary in the event that the management savings achieved by the 
District during the year do not meet the level of management savings 
projected by the District under the proposed budget.
    Sec. 163. In submitting any document showing the budget for an 
office of the District of Columbia government (including an independent 
agency of the District) that contains a category of activities labeled 
as ``other'', ``miscellaneous'', or a similar general, nondescriptive 
term, the document shall include a description of the types of 
activities covered in the category and a detailed breakdown of the 
amount allocated for each such activity.
    Sec. 164. (a) Authorizing Corps of Engineers To Perform Repairs and 
Improvements.--In using the funds made available under this Act for 
carrying out improvements to the Southwest Waterfront in the District 
of Columbia (including upgrading marina dock pilings and paving and 
restoring walkways in the marina and fish market areas) for the 
portions of Federal property in the Southwest quadrant of the District 
of Columbia within Lots 847 and 848, a portion of Lot 846, and the 
unassessed Federal real property adjacent to Lot 848 in Square 473, any 
entity of the District of Columbia government (including the District 
of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority or its designee) may place orders for engineering and 
construction and related services with the Chief of Engineers of the 
United States Army Corps of Engineers. The Chief of Engineers may 
accept such orders on a reimbursable basis and may provide any part of 
such services by contract. In providing such services, the Chief of 
Engineers shall follow the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the 
implementing Department of Defense regulations.
    (b) Timing for Availability of Funds Under 1999 Act.--
        (1) In general.--The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
    1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-124) is amended in the 
    item relating to ``FEDERAL FUNDS--Federal Payment for Waterfront 
    Improvements''--
            (A) by striking ``existing lessees'' the first place it 
        appears and inserting ``existing lessees of the Marina''; and
            (B) by striking ``the existing lessees'' the second place 
        it appears and inserting ``such lessees''.
        (2) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect as if 
    included in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (c) Additional Funding for Improvements Carried Out Through Corps 
of Engineers.--
        (1) In general.--There is hereby transferred from the District 
    of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
    Authority to the Mayor the sum of $3,000,000 for carrying out the 
    improvements described in subsection (a) through the Chief of 
    Engineers of the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
        (2) Source of funds.--The funds transferred under paragraph (1) 
    shall be derived from the escrow account held by the District of 
    Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
    Authority pursuant to section 134 of division A of the Omnibus 
    Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
    (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-552), for infrastructure needs 
    of the District of Columbia.
    (d) Quarterly Reports on Project.--The Mayor shall submit reports 
to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate on the status of the 
improvements described in subsection (a) for each calendar quarter 
occurring until the improvements are completed.
    Sec. 165. It is the sense of the Congress that the District of 
Columbia should not impose or take into consideration any height, 
square footage, set-back, or other construction or zoning requirements 
in authorizing the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for a project 
of the American National Red Cross at 2025 E Street Northwest, 
Washington, D.C., in as much as this project is subject to approval of 
the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine 
Arts pursuant to section 11 of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint 
Resolution to grant authority for the erection of a permanent building 
for the American National Red Cross, District of Columbia Chapter, 
Washington, District of Columbia'', approved July 1, 1947 (Public Law 
100-637; 36 U.S.C. 300108 note).
    Sec. 166. (a) Permitting Court Services and Offender Supervision 
Agency To Carry Out Sex Offender Registration.--Section 11233(c) of the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997 (D.C. Code, sec. 24-1233(c)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(5) Sex offender registration.--The Agency shall carry out 
    sex offender registration functions in the District of Columbia, 
    and shall have the authority to exercise all powers and functions 
    relating to sex offender registration that are granted to the 
    Agency under any District of Columbia law.''.
    (b) Authority During Transition to Full Operation of Agency.--
        (1) Authority of pretrial services, parole, adult probation and 
    offender supervision trustee.--Notwithstanding section 11232(b)(1) 
    of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
    Improvement Act of 1997 (D.C. Code, sec. 24-1232(b)(1)), the 
    Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision 
    Trustee appointed under section 11232(a) of such Act (hereafter 
    referred to as the ``Trustee'') shall, in accordance with section 
    11232 of such Act, exercise the powers and functions of the Court 
    Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of 
    Columbia (hereafter referred to as the ``Agency'') relating to sex 
    offender registration (as granted to the Agency under any District 
    of Columbia law) only upon the Trustee's certification that the 
    Trustee is able to assume such powers and functions.
        (2) Authority of metropolitan police department.--During the 
    period that begins on the date of the enactment of the Sex Offender 
    Registration Emergency Act of 1999 and ends on the date the Trustee 
    makes the certification described in paragraph (1), the 
    Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia shall 
    have the authority to carry out any powers and functions relating 
    to sex offender registration that are granted to the Agency or to 
    the Trustee under any District of Columbia law.
    Sec. 167. (a) None of the funds contained in this Act may be used 
to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or 
otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or 
distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
    (b) The Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative 
of 1998, also known as Initiative 59, approved by the electors of the 
District of Columbia on November 3, 1998, shall not take effect.
    Sec. 168. (a) In General.--There is hereby transferred from the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority (hereinafter referred to as the ``Authority'') to the 
District of Columbia the sum of $5,000,000 for the Mayor, in 
consultation with the Council of the District of Columbia, to provide 
offsets against local taxes for a commercial revitalization program, 
such program to be available in enterprise zones and low and moderate 
income areas in the District of Columbia: Provided, That in carrying 
out such a program, the Mayor shall use Federal commercial 
revitalization proposals introduced in Congress as a guideline.
    (b) Source of Funds.--The amount transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be derived from interest earned on accounts held by the Authority 
on behalf of the District of Columbia.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Mayor shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives on the 
progress made in carrying out the commercial revitalization program.
    Sec. 169. Section 456 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
(section 47-231 et seq. of the D.C. Code, as added by the Federal 
Payment Reauthorization Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-373)) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``District of Columbia 
    Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority'' and 
    inserting ``Mayor''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Authority'' and 
    inserting ``Mayor''.
    Sec. 170. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
        (1) The District of Columbia has recently witnessed a spate of 
    senseless killings of innocent citizens caught in the crossfire of 
    shootings. A Justice Department crime victimization survey found 
    that while the city saw a decline in the homicide rate between 1996 
    and 1997, the rate was the highest among a dozen cities and more 
    than double the second highest city.
        (2) The District of Columbia has not made adequate funding 
    available to fight drug abuse in recent years, and the city has not 
    deployed its resources as effectively as possible. In fiscal year 
    1998, $20,900,000 was spent on publicly funded drug treatment in 
    the District compared to $29,000,000 in fiscal year 1993. The 
    District's Addiction and Prevention and Recovery Agency currently 
    has only 2,200 treatment slots, a 50 percent drop from 1994, with 
    more than 1,100 people on waiting lists.
        (3) The District of Columbia has seen a rash of inmate escapes 
    from halfway houses. According to Department of Corrections 
    records, between October 21, 1998 and January 19, 1999, 376 of the 
    1,125 inmates assigned to halfway houses walked away. Nearly 280 of 
    the 376 escapees were awaiting trial including two charged with 
    murder.
        (4) The District of Columbia public schools system faces 
    serious challenges in correcting chronic problems, particularly 
    long-standing deficiencies in providing special education services 
    to the 1 in 10 District students needing program benefits, 
    including backlogged assessments, and repeated failure to meet a 
    compliance agreement on special education reached with the 
    Department of Education.
        (5) Deficiencies in the delivery of basic public services from 
    cleaning streets to waiting time at Department of Motor Vehicles to 
    a rat population estimated earlier this year to exceed the human 
    population have generated considerable public frustration.
        (6) Last year, the District of Columbia forfeited millions of 
    dollars in Federal grants after Federal auditors determined that 
    several agencies exceeded grant restrictions and in other 
    instances, failed to spend funds before the grants expired.
        (7) Findings of a 1999 report by the Annie E. Casey Foundation 
    that measured the well-being of children reflected that, with one 
    exception, the District ranked worst in the United States in every 
    category from infant mortality to the rate of teenage births to 
    statistics chronicling child poverty.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that in 
considering the District of Columbia's fiscal year 2001 budget, the 
Congress will take into consideration progress or lack of progress in 
addressing the following issues:
        (1) Crime, including the homicide rate, implementation of 
    community policing, the number of police officers on local beats, 
    and the closing down of open-air drug markets.
        (2) Access to drug abuse treatment, including the number of 
    treatment slots, the number of people served, the number of people 
    on waiting lists, and the effectiveness of treatment programs.
        (3) Management of parolees and pretrial violent offenders, 
    including the number of halfway house escapes and steps taken to 
    improve monitoring and supervision of halfway house residents to 
    reduce the number of escapes.
        (4) Education, including access to special education services 
    and student achievement.
        (5) Improvement in basic city services, including rat control 
    and abatement.
        (6) Application for and management of Federal grants.
        (7) Indicators of child well-being.
    Sec. 171. The Mayor, prior to using Federal Medicaid payments to 
Disproportionate Share Hospitals to serve a small number of childless 
adults, should consider the recommendations of the Health Care 
Development Commission that has been appointed by the Council of the 
District of Columbia to review this program, and consult and report to 
Congress on the use of these funds.
    Sec. 172. GAO Study of District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
System. Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
        (1) conduct a study of the law enforcement, court, prison, 
    probation, parole, and other components of the criminal justice 
    system of the District of Columbia, in order to identify the 
    components most in need of additional resources, including 
    financial, personnel, and management resources; and
        (2) submit to Congress a report on the results of the study 
    under paragraph (1).
    Sec. 173. Nothing in this Act bars the District of Columbia 
Corporation Counsel from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private 
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the District government 
regarding such lawsuits.
    Sec. 174. Wireless Communications. (a) In General.--Not later than 
7 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, 
shall--
        (1) implement the notice of decision approved by the National 
    Capital Regional Director, dated April 7, 1999, including the 
    provisions of the notice of decision concerning the issuance of 
    right-of-way permits at market rates; and
        (2) expend such sums as are necessary to carry out paragraph 
    (1).
    (b) Antenna Applications.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the receipt of 
    an application, a Federal agency that receives an application 
    submitted after the enactment of this Act to locate a wireless 
    communications antenna on Federal property in the District of 
    Columbia or surrounding area over which the Federal agency 
    exercises control shall take final action on the application, 
    including action on the issuance of right-of-way permits at market 
    rates.
        (2) Existing law.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
    construed to affect the applicability of existing laws regarding--
            (A) judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5, United 
        States Code (the Administrative Procedure Act), and the 
        Communications Act of 1934;
            (B) the National Environmental Policy Act, the National 
        Historic Preservation Act and other applicable Federal 
        statutes; and
            (C) the authority of a State or local government or 
        instrumentality thereof, including the District of Columbia, in 
        the placement, construction, and modification of personal 
        wireless service facilities.
    Sec. 175. (a)(1) The first paragraph under the heading ``Community 
Development Block Grants'' in title II of H.R. 2684 (Public Law 106-74) 
is amended by inserting after ``National American Indian Housing 
Council,'' the following: ``$4,000,000 shall be available as a grant 
for the Special Olympics in Anchorage, Alaska to develop the Ben Boeke 
Arena and Hilltop Ski Area,''; and
    (2) The paragraph that includes the words ``Economic Development 
Initiative (EDI)'' under the heading ``Community Development Block 
Grants'' in title II of H.R. 2684 (Public Law 106-74) is amended by 
striking ``$240,000,000'' and inserting ``$243,500,000''.
    (b) The statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.R. 2684 is deemed to be amended under the heading 
``Community Development Block Grants'' to include in the description of 
targeted economic development initiatives the following:
        ``--$1,000,000 for the New Jersey Community Development 
    Corporation for the construction of the New Jersey Community 
    Development Corporation's Transportation Opportunity Center;
        ``--$750,000 for South Dakota State University in Brookings, 
    South Dakota for the development of a performing arts center;
        ``--$925,000 for the Florida Association of Counties for a 
    Rural Capacity Building Pilot Project in Tallahassee, Florida;
        ``--$500,000 for the Osceola County Agriculture Center for 
    construction of a new and expanded agriculture center in Osceola 
    County, Florida;
        ``--$1,000,000 for the University of Syracuse in Syracuse, New 
    York for electrical infrastructure improvements.''; and the current 
    descriptions are amended as follows:
        ``--$1,700,000 to the City of Miami, Florida for the 
    development of a Homeownership Zone to assist residents displaced 
    by the demolition of public housing in the Model City area;'' is 
    amended to read as follows:
        ``--$1,700,000 to Miami-Dade County, Florida for an economic 
    development project at the Opa-locka Neighborhood Center;'';
        ``--$250,000 to the Arizona Science Center in Yuma, Arizona for 
    its after-school program for inner-city youth;'' is amended to read 
    as follows:
        ``--$250,000 to the Arizona Science Center in Phoenix, Arizona 
    for its after-school program for inner-city youth;'';
        ``--$200,000 to the Schuylkill County Fire Fighters Association 
    for a smoke-maze building on the grounds of the firefighters 
    facility in Morea, Pennsylvania;'' is amended to read as follows:
        ``--$200,000 to the Schuylkill County Fire Fighters Association 
    for a smoke-maze building and other facilities and improvements on 
    the grounds of the firefighters facility in Morea, Pennsylvania;''.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the $2,000,000 made 
available pursuant to Public Law 105-276 for Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
to redevelop the Sun Co./LTV Steel Site in Hazelwood, Pennsylvania is 
available to the Department of Economic Development in Allegheny 
County, Pennsylvania for the development of a technology based project 
in the county.
    (d) Insert the following new sections at the end of the 
administrative provisions in title II of H.R. 2684 (Public Law 106-74):


             ``FHA MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGE CREDIT DEMONSTRATION

    ``Sec. 226. Section 542 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1992 is amended--
        ``(1) in subsection (b)(5) by striking `during fiscal year 
    1999' and inserting `in each of the fiscal years 1999 and 2000'; 
    and
        ``(2) in the first sentence of subsection (c)(4) by striking 
    `during fiscal year 1999' and inserting `in each of fiscal years 
    1999 and 2000'.


                        ``DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAM

    ``Sec. 227. (a) Section 5126(4) of the Public and Assisted Housing 
Drug Elimination Act of 1990 is amended--
        ``(1) in subparagraph (B), by inserting after `1965;' the 
    following: `or';
        ``(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking `1937: or' and inserting 
    `1937.'; and
        ``(3) by striking subparagraph (D).
    ``(b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall be construed to 
have taken effect on October 21, 1998.''.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                        TITLE II--TAX REDUCTION

    Sec. 201. Commending reduction of taxes by district of columbia. 
The Congress commends the District of Columbia for its action to reduce 
taxes, and ratifies D.C. Act 13-110 (commonly known as the Service 
Improvement and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Support Act of 1999).
    Sec. 202. Rule of construction. Nothing in this title may be 
construed to limit the ability of the Council of the District of 
Columbia to amend or repeal any provision of law described in this 
title.

                               DIVISION B

  DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND 
                    RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS

    For programs, projects, and activities in the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000, provided as follows, to be effective as if it 
had been enacted into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                                 An Act


  Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending 
               September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


                     training and employment services

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act, including 
the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and other facilities, and the 
purchase of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
Workforce Investment Act; the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act; the Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations Act; 
the National Skill Standards Act of 1994; and the School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act; $3,002,618,000 plus reimbursements, of which 
$1,650,153,000 is available for obligation for the period July 1, 2000 
through June 30, 2001; of which $1,250,965,000 is available for 
obligation for the period April 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001; of which 
$35,500,000 is available for the period July 1, 2000 through June 30, 
2003 including $34,000,000 for necessary expenses of construction, 
rehabilitation, and acquisition of Job Corps centers, and $1,500,000 
under authority of section 171(d) of the Workforce Investment Act for 
use by the Organizing Committee for the 2001 Special Olympics World 
Winter Games in Alaska to promote employment opportunities for 
individuals with disabilities and other staffing needs; and of which 
$55,000,000 shall be available from July 1, 2000 through September 30, 
2001, for carrying out activities of the School-to-Work Opportunities 
Act: Provided, That $58,800,000 shall be for carrying out section 166 
of the Workforce Investment Act, including $5,000,000 for carrying out 
section 166(j)(1) of the Workforce Investment Act, including the 
provision of assistance to American Samoans who reside in Hawaii for 
the co-location of federally funded and State-funded workforce 
investment activities, and $7,000,000 shall be for carrying out the 
National Skills Standards Act of 1994: Provided further, That no funds 
from any other appropriation shall be used to provide meal services at 
or for Job Corps centers: Provided further, That funds provided to 
carry out section 171(d) of such Act may be used for demonstration 
projects that provide assistance to new entrants in the workforce and 
incumbent workers: Provided further, That funding provided to carry out 
projects under section 171 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 that 
are identified in the Conference Agreement, shall not be subject to the 
requirements of section 171(b)(2)(B) of such Act, the requirements of 
section 171(c)(4)(D) of such Act, or the joint funding requirements of 
sections 171(b)(2)(A) and 171(c)(4)(A) of such Act: Provided further, 
That funding appropriated herein for Dislocated Worker Employment and 
Training Activities under section 132(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998 may be distributed for Dislocated Worker 
Projects under section 171(d) of the Act without regard to the 10 
percent limitation contained in section 171(d) of the Act.
    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act, including 
the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and other facilities, and the 
purchase of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
Workforce Investment Act; $2,463,000,000 plus reimbursements, of which 
$2,363,000,000 is available for obligation for the period October 1, 
2000 through June 30, 2001; and of which $100,000,000 is available for 
the period October 1, 2000 through June 30, 2003, for necessary 
expenses of construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition of Job Corps 
centers.


             Community Service Employment for Older Americans

    To carry out the activities for national grants or contracts with 
public agencies and public or private nonprofit organizations under 
paragraph (1)(A) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans 
Act of 1965, as amended, or to carry out older worker activities as 
subsequently authorized, $343,356,000.
    To carry out the activities for grants to States under paragraph 
(3) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as 
amended, or to carry out older worker activities as subsequently 
authorized, $96,844,000.


               Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances

    For payments during the current fiscal year of trade adjustment 
benefit payments and allowances under part I; and for training, 
allowances for job search and relocation, and related State 
administrative expenses under part II, subchapters B and D, chapter 2, 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, $415,150,000, together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15 of 
the current year.


      State Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service Operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $163,452,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,090,288,000 (including not to exceed $1,228,000 which 
may be used for amortization payments to States which had independent 
retirement plans in their State employment service agencies prior to 
1980), which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund including the 
cost of administering section 1201 of the Small Business Job Protection 
Act of 1996, section 7(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, the 
Trade Act of 1974, as amended, the Immigration Act of 1990, and the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, and of which the sums 
available in the allocation for activities authorized by title III of 
the Social Security Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 502-504), and the sums 
available in the allocation for necessary administrative expenses for 
carrying out 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, shall be available for obligation by 
the States through December 31, 2000, except that funds used for 
automation acquisitions shall be available for obligation by the States 
through September 30, 2002; and of which $163,452,000, together with 
not to exceed $738,283,000 of the amount which may be expended from 
said trust fund, shall be available for obligation for the period July 
1, 2000 through June 30, 2001, to fund activities under the Act of June 
6, 1933, as amended, including the cost of penalty mail authorized 
under 39 U.S.C. 3202(a)(1)(E) made available to States in lieu of 
allotments for such purpose, and of which $125,000,000 shall be 
available only to the extent necessary for additional State allocations 
to administer unemployment compensation laws to finance increases in 
the number of unemployment insurance claims filed and claims paid or 
changes in a State law: Provided, That to the extent that the Average 
Weekly Insured Unemployment (AWIU) for fiscal year 2000 is projected by 
the Department of Labor to exceed 2,638,000, an additional $28,600,000 
shall be available for obligation for every 100,000 increase in the 
AWIU level (including a pro rata amount for any increment less than 
100,000) from the Employment Security Administration Account of the 
Unemployment Trust Fund: Provided further, That funds appropriated in 
this Act which are used to establish a national one-stop career center 
network may be obligated in contracts, grants or agreements with non-
State entities: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
Act for activities authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, 
and title III of the Social Security Act, may be used by the States to 
fund integrated Employment Service and Unemployment Insurance 
automation efforts, notwithstanding cost allocation principles 
prescribed under Office of Management and Budget Circular A-87.


         Advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and Other Funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, as amended, and 
to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 
9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; and for 
nonrepayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 
section 8509 of title 5, United States Code, and to the ``Federal 
unemployment benefits and allowances'' account, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001, $356,000,000.
    In addition, for making repayable advances to the Black Lung 
Disability Trust Fund in the current fiscal year after September 15, 
2000, for costs incurred by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund in the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.


                          program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$100,944,000, including $6,431,000 to support up to 75 full-time 
equivalent staff, the majority of which will be term Federal 
appointments lasting no more than 1 year, to administer welfare-to-work 
grants, together with not to exceed $45,056,000, which may be expended 
from the Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment 
Trust Fund.

              Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Pension and Welfare Benefits 
Administration, $96,000,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation


                Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is authorized to make such 
expenditures, including financial assistance authorized by section 104 
of Public Law 96-364, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program through September 30, 2000, for such Corporation: Provided, 
That not to exceed $11,155,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses of the Corporation: Provided further, That expenses of such 
Corporation in connection with the termination of pension plans, for 
the acquisition, protection or management, and investment of trust 
assets, and for benefits administration services shall be considered as 
non-administrative expenses for the purposes hereof, and excluded from 
the above limitation.

                  Employment Standards Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards Administration, 
including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their 
employees for inspection services rendered, $333,260,000, together with 
$1,740,000 which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance 
with sections 39(c), 44(d) and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall be for the 
development of an alternative system for the electronic submission of 
reports as required to be filed under the Labor-Management Reporting 
and Disclosure Act of 1959, as amended, and for a computer database of 
the information for each submission by whatever means, that is indexed 
and easily searchable by the public via the Internet: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept, retain, and spend, 
until expended, in the name of the Department of Labor, all sums of 
money ordered to be paid to the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with 
the terms of the Consent Judgment in Civil Action No. 91-0027 of the 
United States District Court for the District of the Northern Mariana 
Islands (May 21, 1992): Provided further, That the Secretary of Labor 
is authorized to establish and, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
collect and deposit in the Treasury fees for processing applications 
and issuing certificates under sections 11(d) and 14 of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 211(d) and 214) and for 
processing applications and issuing registrations under title I of the 
Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1801 
et seq.).


                             Special Benefits

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by title 5, chapter 81 of the United States 
Code; continuation of benefits as provided for under the heading 
``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation 
Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 
1944; sections 4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2012); and 50 percent of the additional compensation and benefits 
required by section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act, as amended, $79,000,000 together with such amounts as 
may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for 
the payment of compensation and other benefits for any period 
subsequent to August 15 of the current year: Provided, That amounts 
appropriated may be used under section 8104 of title 5, United States 
Code, by the Secretary of Labor to reimburse an employer, who is not 
the employer at the time of injury, for portions of the salary of a 
reemployed, disabled beneficiary: Provided further, That balances of 
reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 1999, shall remain 
available until expended for the payment of compensation, benefits, and 
expenses: Provided further, That in addition there shall be transferred 
to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from any other 
corporation or instrumentality required under section 8147(c) of title 
5, United States Code, to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost 
of administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost 
of administration for employees of such fair share entities through 
September 30, 2000: Provided further, That of those funds transferred 
to this account from the fair share entities to pay the cost of 
administration, $21,849,000 shall be made available to the Secretary as 
follows: (1) for the operation of and enhancement to the automated data 
processing systems, including document imaging and medical bill review, 
in support of Federal Employees' Compensation Act administration, 
$13,433,000; (2) for program staff training to operate the new imaging 
system, $1,300,000; (3) for the periodic roll review program, 
$7,116,000; and (4) the remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury 
as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
require that any person filing a notice of injury or a claim for 
benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, or 33 U.S.C. 
901 et seq., provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying 
information (including Social Security account number) as such 
regulations may prescribe.


                     black lung disability trust fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For payments from the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, 
$1,013,633,000, of which $963,506,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2001, for payment of all benefits as authorized by 
section 9501(d)(1), (2), (4), and (7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1954, as amended, and interest on advances as authorized by section 
9501(c)(2) of that Act, and of which $28,676,000 shall be available for 
transfer to Employment Standards Administration, Salaries and Expenses, 
$20,783,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Salaries and 
Expenses, $312,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Office of 
Inspector General, and $356,000 for payment into miscellaneous receipts 
for the expenses of the Department of Treasury, for expenses of 
operation and administration of the Black Lung Benefits program as 
authorized by section 9501(d)(5) of that Act: Provided, That, in 
addition, such amounts as may be necessary may be charged to the 
subsequent year appropriation for the payment of compensation, 
interest, or other benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 of 
the current year.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $370,000,000, including not to exceed $81,000,000 which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which grants 
shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State occupational 
safety and health programs required to be incurred under plans approved 
by the Secretary under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act of 1970; and, in addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration may retain up to $750,000 
per fiscal year of training institute course tuition fees, otherwise 
authorized by law to be collected, and may utilize such sums for 
occupational safety and health training and education grants: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, to 
collect and retain fees for services provided to Nationally Recognized 
Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, in accordance with the 
provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer national and international 
laboratory recognition programs that ensure the safety of equipment and 
products used by workers in the workplace: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be obligated or 
expended to prescribe, issue, administer, or enforce any standard, 
rule, regulation, or order under the Occupational Safety and Health Act 
of 1970 which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a farming 
operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 10 
or fewer employees: Provided further, That no funds appropriated under 
this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to administer or enforce 
any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act of 1970 with respect to any employer of 10 or fewer 
employees who is included within a category having an occupational 
injury lost workday case rate, at the most precise Standard Industrial 
Classification Code for which such data are published, less than the 
national average rate as such rates are most recently published by the 
Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in accordance 
with section 24 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 673), except--
        (1) to provide, as authorized by such Act, consultation, 
    technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
    conduct surveys and studies;
        (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response to an 
    employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations found during 
    such inspection, and to assess a penalty for violations which are 
    not corrected within a reasonable abatement period and for any 
    willful violations found;
        (3) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    imminent dangers;
        (4) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    health hazards;
        (5) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to a 
    report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or more 
    employees or which results in hospitalization of two or more 
    employees, and to take any action pursuant to such investigation 
    authorized by such Act; and
        (6) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    complaints of discrimination against employees for exercising 
    rights under such Act:
Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to any 
person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer employees.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $228,373,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles; including not to exceed 
$750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health and Safety 
Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of training materials, 
otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to be available for mine 
safety and health education and training activities, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302; the Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, 
equipment, and other contributions from public and private sources and 
to prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, 
State, or private; the Mine Safety and Health Administration is 
authorized to promote health and safety education and training in the 
mining community through cooperative programs with States, industry, 
and safety associations; and any funds available to the department may 
be used, with the approval of the Secretary, to provide for the costs 
of mine rescue and survival operations in the event of a major 
disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $353,781,000, of 
which $6,986,000 shall be for expenses of revising the Consumer Price 
Index and shall remain available until September 30, 2001, together 
with not to exceed $55,663,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

                        Departmental Management


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three sedans, and including up to $7,250,000 for the 
President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities, and 
including the management or operation of Departmental bilateral and 
multilateral foreign technical assistance, $210,478,000; together with 
not to exceed $310,000, which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund: 
Provided, That no funds made available by this Act may be used by the 
Solicitor of Labor to participate in a review in any United States 
court of appeals of any decision made by the Benefits Review Board 
under section 21 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act 
(33 U.S.C. 921) where such participation is precluded by the decision 
of the United States Supreme Court in Director, Office of Workers' 
Compensation Programs v. Newport News Shipbuilding, 115 S. Ct. 1278 
(1995), notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in 
Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure: Provided further, 
That no funds made available by this Act may be used by the Secretary 
of Labor to review a decision under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) that has been appealed and 
that has been pending before the Benefits Review Board for more than 12 
months: Provided further, That any such decision pending a review by 
the Benefits Review Board for more than 1 year shall be considered 
affirmed by the Benefits Review Board on the 1-year anniversary of the 
filing of the appeal, and shall be considered the final order of the 
Board for purposes of obtaining a review in the United States courts of 
appeals: Provided further, That these provisions shall not be 
applicable to the review or appeal of any decision issued under the 
Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 901 et seq.).


         Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training

    Not to exceed $184,341,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4100-4110A, 4212, 4214, and 4321-4327, 
and Public Law 103-353, and which shall be available for obligation by 
the States through December 31, 2000.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $48,095,000, together with not to exceed $3,830,000, which may 
be expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this title for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the compensation of an individual, either as 
direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate in excess 
of Executive Level II.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year 
for the Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified at least 15 days in 
advance of any transfer.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

           TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration


                      Health Resources and Services

    For carrying out titles II, III, VII, VIII, X, XII, XIX, and XXVI 
of the Public Health Service Act, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal 
Mine Health and Safety Act, title V and section 1820 of the Social 
Security Act, the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, as 
amended, and the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, as amended, 
$4,429,292,000, of which $150,000 shall remain available until expended 
for interest subsidies on loan guarantees made prior to fiscal year 
1981 under part B of title VII of the Public Health Service Act, and of 
which $104,052,000 shall be available for the construction and 
renovation of health care and other facilities, and of which 
$25,000,000 from general revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of 
the Social Security Act, shall be available for carrying out the 
Medicare rural hospital flexibility grants program under section 1820 
of such Act: Provided, That the Division of Federal Occupational Health 
may utilize personal services contracting to employ professional 
management/administrative and occupational health professionals: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$250,000 shall be available until expended for facilities renovations 
at the Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease Center: Provided further, That 
in addition to fees authorized by section 427(b) of the Health Care 
Quality Improvement Act of 1986, fees shall be collected for the full 
disclosure of information under the Act sufficient to recover the full 
costs of operating the National Practitioner Data Bank, and shall 
remain available until expended to carry out that Act: Provided 
further, That no more than $5,000,000 is available for carrying out the 
provisions of Public Law 104-73: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $214,932,000 shall be for the 
program under title X of the Public Health Service Act to provide for 
voluntary family planning projects: Provided further, That amounts 
provided to said projects under such title shall not be expended for 
abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be nondirective, and 
that such amounts shall not be expended for any activity (including the 
publication or distribution of literature) that in any way tends to 
promote public support or opposition to any legislative proposal or 
candidate for public office: Provided further, That $518,000,000 shall 
be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs authorized by section 2616 
of the Public Health Service Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 502(a)(1) of the Social Security Act, not to 
exceed $108,742,000 is available for carrying out special projects of 
regional and national significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of 
such Act: Provided further, That of the amount provided under the 
heading, $20,000,000 shall be available for children's hospitals 
graduate medical education payments, subject to authorization: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided under this heading, $900,000 shall 
be for the American Federation of Negro Affairs Education and Research 
Fund.


                medical facilities guarantee and loan fund

            federal interest subsidies for medical facilities

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1602 of the 
Public Health Service Act, $1,000,000, together with any amounts 
received by the Secretary in connection with loans and loan guarantees 
under title VI of the Public Health Service Act, to be available 
without fiscal year limitation for the payment of interest subsidies. 
During the fiscal year, no commitments for direct loans or loan 
guarantees shall be made.


                health education assistance loans program

    Such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
program, as authorized by title VII of the Public Health Service Act, 
as amended. For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, including section 709 of the Public Health Service Act, 
$3,688,000.


              vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund, such sums as may be necessary for claims associated with vaccine-
related injury or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $3,000,000 shall 
be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


                 Disease Control, Research, and Training

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, XIX and XXVI of the 
Public Health Service Act, sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, 
and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, sections 20, 
21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, title IV 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980; including insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries; and hire, maintenance, and operation of 
aircraft, $2,798,886,000 of which $60,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for equipment and construction and renovation of 
facilities, and in addition, such sums as may be derived from 
authorized user fees, which shall be credited to this account: 
Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, up to 
$71,690,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 241 
of the Public Health Service Act, to carry out the National Center for 
Health Statistics surveys: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available for injury prevention and control at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention may be used to advocate or promote gun 
control: Provided further, That the Director may redirect the total 
amount made available under authority of Public Law 101-502, section 3, 
dated November 3, 1990, to activities the Director may so designate: 
Provided further, That the Congress is to be notified promptly of any 
such transfer: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a single contract or related contracts for the 
development and construction of the infectious disease laboratory 
through the General Services Administration may be employed which 
collectively include the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
That the solicitation and contract shall contain the clause 
``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232-18: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $10,000,000 may be available for making grants under 
section 1509 of the Public Health Service Act to not more than 10 
States: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $3,000,000 shall be for the Center for Environmental Medicine 
and Toxicology at the University of Mississippi Medical Center at 
Jackson and $1,000,000 shall be for the University of South Alabama 
birth defects monitoring and prevention activities.
    In addition, $51,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, for carrying out sections 40151 and 40261 of 
Public Law 103-322.

                     National Institutes of Health


                        national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cancer, $3,332,317,000.


                national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, 
and blood and blood products, $2,040,291,000.


          national institute of dental and craniofacial research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to dental disease, $270,253,000.


     national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, 
$1,147,588,000.


         national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

     For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
$1,034,886,000.


          national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
$1,803,063,000.


              national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, $1,361,668,000.


         national institute of child health and human development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to child health and human development, 
$862,884,000.


                          national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
$452,706,000.


           national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out sections 301 and 311 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health sciences, 
$444,817,000.


                       national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to aging, $690,156,000.


  national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin 
diseases, $351,840,000.


     national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
$265,185,000.


                  national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to nursing research, $90,000,000.


            national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $293,935,000.


                     national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $689,448,000.


                   national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to mental health, $978,360,000.


                 national human genome research institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to human genome research, $337,322,000.


                  national center for research resources

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to research resources and general research 
support grants, $680,176,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall 
be used to pay recipients of the general research support grants 
program any amount for indirect expenses in connection with such 
grants: Provided further, That $75,000,000 shall be for extramural 
facilities construction grants.


                   john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities at the John E. Fogarty 
International Center, $43,723,000.


                       national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to health information communications, 
$215,214,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
improvement of information systems: Provided, That in fiscal year 2000, 
the Library may enter into personal services contracts for the 
provision of services in facilities owned, operated, or constructed 
under the jurisdiction of the National Institutes of Health.


        national center for complementary and alternative medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to complementary and alternative medicine, 
$68,753,000.


                          office of the director

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, National Institutes of Health, $283,509,000, of which 
$44,953,000 shall be for the Office of AIDS Research: Provided, That 
funding shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, That 
the Director may direct up to 1 percent of the total amount made 
available in this or any other Act to all National Institutes of Health 
appropriations to activities the Director may so designate: Provided 
further, That no such appropriation shall be decreased by more than 1 
percent by any such transfers and that the Congress is promptly 
notified of the transfer: Provided further, That the National 
Institutes of Health is authorized to collect third party payments for 
the cost of clinical services that are incurred in National Institutes 
of Health research facilities and that such payments shall be credited 
to the National Institutes of Health Management Fund: Provided further, 
That all funds credited to the National Institutes of Health Management 
Fund shall remain available for one fiscal year after the fiscal year 
in which they are deposited: Provided further, That up to $500,000 
shall be available to carry out section 499 of the Public Health 
Service Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 499(k)(10) 
of the Public Health Service Act, funds from the Foundation for the 
National Institutes of Health may be transferred to the National 
Institutes of Health.


                         buildings and facilities

    For the study of, construction of, and acquisition of equipment 
for, facilities of or used by the National Institutes of Health, 
including the acquisition of real property, $135,376,000, to remain 
available until expended.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration


                substance abuse and mental health services

    For carrying out titles V and XIX of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to substance abuse and mental health services, the 
Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986, and 
section 301 of the Public Health Service Act with respect to program 
management, $2,549,728,000.

               Agency for Health Care Policy and Research


                     Health Care Policy and Research

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health Service 
Act, and part A of title XI of the Social Security Act, $111,424,000; 
in addition, amounts received from Freedom of Information Act fees, 
reimbursable and interagency agreements, and the sale of data tapes 
shall be credited to this appropriation and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the amount made available pursuant to 
section 926(b) of the Public Health Service Act shall not exceed 
$83,576,000.

                  Health Care Financing Administration


                      grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $86,087,393,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 2000, payments to States under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 2000 for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on 
behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2001, $30,589,003,000, to remain available 
until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with respect to 
a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such quarter, if 
submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that or any 
subsequent quarter.


                   payments to health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
217(g) and 1844 of the Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) 
of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of Public Law 
97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 
201(g) of the Social Security Act, $69,289,100,000.


                            Program Management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement 
Amendments of 1988, not to exceed $1,971,648,000, to be transferred 
from the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of the 
Social Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance 
with section 353 of the Public Health Service Act and such sums as may 
be collected from authorized user fees and the sale of data, which 
shall remain available until expended, and together with administrative 
fees collected relative to Medicare overpayment recovery activities, 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided, That all funds 
derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations 
established under title XIII of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of this 
appropriation: Provided further, That $18,000,000 appropriated under 
this heading for the managed care system redesign shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the 
amount available for research, demonstration, and evaluation activities 
shall be available to continue carrying out demonstration projects on 
Medicaid coverage of community-based attendant care services for people 
with disabilities which ensures maximum control by the consumer to 
select and manage their attendant care services: Provided further, That 
$3,000,000 of the amount available for research, demonstration, and 
evaluation activities shall be awarded to an application from the 
University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, the University of Louisville 
Sciences Center, and St. Vincent's Hospital in Montana to conduct a 
demonstration to reduce hospitalizations among high-risk patients with 
congestive heart failure: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the 
amount available for research, demonstration, and evaluation activities 
shall be awarded to the AIDS Healthcare Foundation in Los Angeles: 
Provided further, That $100,000 of the amount available for research, 
demonstration, and evaluation activities shall be awarded to Littleton 
Regional Hospital in New Hampshire, to assist in the development of 
rural emergency medical services: Provided further, That $250,000 of 
the amount available for research, demonstration, and evaluation 
activities shall be awarded to the University of Missouri-Kansas City 
to test behavorial interventions of nursing home residents with 
moderate to severe dementia: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services is directed to collect, in aggregate, 
$95,000,000 in fees in fiscal year 2000 from Medicare+Choice 
organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act 
and from eligible organizations with risk-sharing contracts under 
section 1876 of that Act pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.


       health maintenance organization loan and loan guarantee fund

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1308 of the 
Public Health Service Act, any amounts received by the Secretary in 
connection with loans and loan guarantees under title XIII of the 
Public Health Service Act, to be available without fiscal year 
limitation for the payment of outstanding obligations. During fiscal 
year 2000, no commitments for direct loans or loan guarantees shall be 
made.

                Administration for Children and Families


   payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), for the first quarter of fiscal 
year 2001, $650,000,000.
    For making payments to each State for carrying out the program of 
Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title IV-A of the Social 
Security Act before the effective date of the program of Temporary 
Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) with respect to such State, such 
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That the sum of the amounts 
available to a State with respect to expenditures under such title IV-A 
in fiscal year 1997 under this appropriation and under such title IV-A 
as amended by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 shall not exceed the limitations under 
section 116(b) of such Act.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 
U.S.C. ch. 9), for the last 3 months of the current year for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.


                    low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, $1,100,000,000, to be available for 
obligation in the period October 1, 2000 through September 30, 2001.
    For making payments under title XXVI of such Act, $300,000,000: 
Provided, That these funds are hereby designated by Congress to be 
emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, 
That these funds shall be made available only after submission to 
Congress of a formal budget request by the President that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
    The $1,100,000,000 provided in the first paragraph under this 
heading in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained 
in section 101(f) of division A of Public Law 105-277) is hereby 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985: Provided, That such funds shall be available only 
if the President submits to the Congress one official budget request 
for $1,100,000,000 that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to such section: Provided further, That 
such funds shall be distributed in accordance with section 2604 of the 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8623), other than 
subsection (e) of such section.


                      refugee and entrant assistance

    For making payments for refugee and entrant assistance activities 
authorized by title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 
96-422), $419,005,000: Provided, That funds appropriated pursuant to 
section 414(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act under Public Law 
105-78 for fiscal year 1998 and under Public Law 105-277 for fiscal 
year 1999 shall be available for the costs of assistance provided and 
other activities through September 30, 2001.
    For carrying out section 5 of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 
1998 (Public Law 105-320), $7,500,000.
    The $426,505,000 provided under this heading is hereby designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985: Provided, That such funds shall be available only if the 
President submits to the Congress one official budget request for 
$426,505,000 that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to such section.


    Payments to States for the Child Care and Development Block Grant

    For carrying out sections 658A through 658R of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981 (The Child Care and Development Block Grant 
Act of 1990), to become available on October 1, 2000 and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, $1,182,672,000: Provided, That 
$19,120,000 shall be available for child care resource and referral and 
school-aged child care activities.


                       social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,700,000,000: Provided, That: (1) notwithstanding 
section 2003(c) of such Act, as amended, the amount specified for 
allocation under such section for fiscal year 2000 shall be 
$1,700,000,000; and (2) notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 
404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable percent specified under such 
subparagraph for a State to carry out State programs pursuant to title 
XX of such Act for fiscal year 2000 shall be 4.25 percent.


                 Children and Families Services Programs

                         (including rescissions)

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title II of 
Public Law 95-266 (adoption opportunities), the Adoption and Safe 
Families Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-89), the Abandoned Infants 
Assistance Act of 1988, part B(1) of title IV and sections 413, 429A, 
1110, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; for making payments under 
the Community Services Block Grant Act, section 473A of the Social 
Security Act, and title IV of Public Law 105-285; and for necessary 
administrative expenses to carry out said Acts and titles I, IV, X, XI, 
XIV, XVI, and XX of the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960 
(24 U.S.C. ch. 9), the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, title 
IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980, section 5 of the Torture Victims 
Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-320), sections 40155, 40211, and 
40241 of Public Law 103-322 and section 126 and titles IV and V of 
Public Law 100-485, $6,708,733,000, of which $43,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001, shall be for grants to States for 
adoption incentive payments, as authorized by section 473A of title IV 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670-679); of which $567,065,000 
shall be for making payments under the Community Services Block Grant 
Act; and of which $5,267,000,000 shall be for making payments under the 
Head Start Act, of which $1,400,000,000 shall become available October 
1, 2000 and remain available through September 30, 2001: Provided, That 
to the extent Community Services Block Grant funds are distributed as 
grant funds by a State to an eligible entity as provided under the Act, 
and have not been expended by such entity, they shall remain with such 
entity for carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such 
entity consistent with program purposes: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall establish procedures regarding the disposition of 
intangible property which permits grant funds, or intangible assets 
acquired with funds authorized under section 680 of the Community 
Services Block Grant Act, as amended, to become the sole property of 
such grantees after a period of not more than 12 years after the end of 
the grant for purposes and uses consistent with the original grant.
    In addition, $101,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund for carrying out sections 40155, 40211, and 40241 
of Public Law 103-322.
    Funds appropriated for fiscal year 2000 under section 429A(e), part 
B of title IV of the Social Security Act shall be reduced by 
$6,000,000.
    Funds appropriated for fiscal year 2000 under section 413(h)(1) of 
the Social Security Act shall be reduced by $15,000,000.


                    Promoting Safe and Stable Families

    For carrying out section 430 of the Social Security Act, 
$295,000,000.


        payments to states for foster care and adoption assistance

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $4,307,300,000.
    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal 
year 2001, $1,538,000,000.

                        Administration on Aging


                         Aging Services Programs

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended, and section 398 of the Public Health 
Service Act, $930,225,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
308(b)(1) of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended, the amounts 
available to each State for administration of the State plan under 
title III of such Act shall be reduced not more than 5 percent below 
the amount that was available to such State for such purpose for fiscal 
year 1995: Provided further, That in considering grant applications for 
nutrition services for elder Indian recipients, the Assistant Secretary 
shall provide maximum flexibility to applicants who seek to take into 
account subsistence, local customs, and other characteristics that are 
appropriate to the unique cultural, regional, and geographic needs of 
the American Indian, Alaska and Hawaiian Native communities to be 
served.

                        Office of the Secretary


                     general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six sedans, and for carrying 
out titles III, XVII, and XX of the Public Health Service Act, and the 
United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act, $209,701,000, of 
which $20,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2000, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2001, together with $5,851,000, to 
be transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the 
Social Security Act from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund: Provided, That $450,000 
shall be for a contract with the National Academy of Sciences to 
conduct a study of the proposed tuberculosis standard promulgated by 
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration: Provided further, 
That said contract shall be awarded not later than 60 days after the 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That said study shall be 
submitted to the Congress not later than 12 months after award of the 
contract: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading for carrying out title XX of the Public Health Service Act, 
$10,569,000 shall be for activities specified under section 2003(b)(2), 
of which $9,131,000 shall be for prevention service demonstration 
grants under section 510(b)(2) of title V of the Social Security Act, 
as amended, without application of the limitation of section 2010(c) of 
said title XX: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be available to 
the Office of the Surgeon General, within the Office of Public Health 
and Science, to prepare and disseminate the findings of the Surgeon 
General's report on youth violence, and to coordinate with other 
agencies throughout the Federal Government, through the establishment 
of a Federal Coordinating Committee, activities to prevent youth 
violence: Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer a portion 
of such funds to other Federal entities for youth violence prevention 
coordination activities.


                       Office of Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $31,500,000.


                         office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$18,338,000, together with not to exceed $3,314,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical 
Insurance Trust Fund.


                             policy research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, research 
studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $17,000,000.


      retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), and for payments 
pursuant to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), such amounts as may be required during the current fiscal 
year.


             Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, disease and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $181,600,000: Provided, That this amount is distributed as 
follows: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $122,000,000, of 
which $30,000,000 shall be for the Health Alert Network, $1,000,000 
shall be for the Carnegie Mellon Research Institute, $1,000,000 shall 
be for the St. Louis University School of Public Health, $1,000,000 
shall be for the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, and 
$1,000,000 shall be for the Johns Hopkins University Center for 
Civilian Biodefense; Office of the Secretary, $30,000,000, Agency for 
Health Care Policy and Research, $5,000,000, and Office of Emergency 
Preparedness, $24,600,000. In addition, for expenses necessary for the 
portion of the Global Health Initiative conducted by the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, $69,000,000: Provided further, That 
this amount is distributed as follows: $35,000,000 shall be for 
international HIV/AIDS programs, $9,000,000 shall be for malaria 
programs, $5,000,000 shall be for global micronutrient malnutrition 
programs and $20,000,000 shall be for carrying out polio eradication 
activities. In addition, $150,000,000 for carrying out the Department's 
Year 2000 computer conversion activities, $5,000,000 for the 
environmental health laboratory at the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, $35,000,000 for minority AIDS prevention and treatment 
activities, $20,000,000 for the National Institutes of Health challenge 
grant program, and $50,000,000 to support the Ricky Ray Hemophilia 
Relief Fund Act of 1998: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, up to $10,000,000 of the amount provided for 
the Ricky Ray Hemophilia Relief Fund Act may be available for 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That the entire amount under 
this heading is hereby designated by the Congress to be emergency 
requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount under this heading shall be made 
available only after submission to the Congress of a formal budget 
request by the President that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That no funds shall be obligated until the Department of 
Health and Human Services submits an operating plan to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $37,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202. The Secretary shall make available through assignment not 
more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child 
survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the United 
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 203. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be used 
to implement section 399L(b) of the Public Health Service Act or 
section 1503 of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 
1993, Public Law 103-43.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an 
individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in 
excess of Executive Level II.
    Sec. 205. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the Public Health Service Act, 
except for funds specifically provided for in this Act, or for other 
taps and assessments made by any office located in the Department of 
Health and Human Services, prior to the Secretary's preparation and 
submission of a report to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
and of the House detailing the planned uses of such funds.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 206. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year 
for the Department of Health and Human Services in this Act may be 
transferred between appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be 
increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That 
the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 
at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 207. The Director of the National Institutes of Health, 
jointly with the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer 
up to 3 percent among institutes, centers, and divisions from the total 
amounts identified by these two Directors as funding for research 
pertaining to the human immunodeficiency virus: Provided, That the 
Congress is promptly notified of the transfer.
    Sec. 208. Of the amounts made available in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, the amount for research related to the 
human immunodeficiency virus, as jointly determined by the Director of 
the National Institutes of Health and the Director of the Office of 
AIDS Research, shall be made available to the ``Office of AIDS 
Research'' account. The Director of the Office of AIDS Research shall 
transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out section 
2353(d)(3) of the Public Health Service Act.
    Sec. 209. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the Public Health Service Act 
unless the applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it 
encourages family participation in the decision of minors to seek 
family planning services and that it provides counseling to minors on 
how to resist attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual 
activities.
    Sec. 210. (a) The final rule entitled ``Organ Procurement and 
Transplantation Network'', promulgated by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services on April 2, 1998 (63 Fed. Reg. 16295 et seq.) (relating 
to part 121 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations), together with 
the amendments to such rules promulgated on October 20, 1999 (64 Fed. 
Reg. 56649 et seq.) shall not become effective before the expiration of 
the 90 day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) For purposes of subsection (a):
        (1) Not later than 3 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to 
    in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall publish in the Federal 
    Register a notice providing that the period within which comments 
    on the final rule may be submitted to the Secretary is 60 days 
    after the date of such publication of the notice.
        (2) Not later than 21 days after the expiration of such 60-day 
    period, the Secretary shall complete the review of the comments 
    submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) and shall amend the final rule 
    with any revisions appropriate according to the review by the 
    Secretary of such comments. The final rule may be in the form of 
    amendments to the rule referred to in subsection (a) that was 
    promulgated on April 2, 1998, and in the form of amendments to the 
    rule referred to in such subsection that was promulgated on October 
    20, 1999.
    Sec. 211. None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare+Choice program if the Secretary denies participation in such 
program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider Sponsored 
Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that it will not 
provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals for 
abortions: Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees): Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare+Choice organization 
described in this section shall be responsible for informing enrollees 
where to obtain information about all Medicare covered services.
    Sec. 212. (a) Mental Health.--Section 1918(b) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-7(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--With respect to fiscal year 
2000, the amount of the allotment of a State under section 1911 shall 
not be less than the amount the State received under section 1911 for 
fiscal year 1998.''.
    (b) Substance Abuse.--Section 1933(b) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-33(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--Each State's allotment for 
fiscal year 2000 for programs under this subpart shall be equal to such 
State's allotment for such programs for fiscal year 1999, except that, 
if the amount appropriated in fiscal year 2000 is less than the amount 
appropriated in fiscal year 1999, then the amount of a State's 
allotment under section 1921 shall be equal to the amount that the 
State received under section 1921 in fiscal year 1999 decreased by the 
percentage by which the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2000 is 
less than the amount appropriated for such section for fiscal year 
1999.''.
    Sec. 213. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
exempt from any State law requiring notification or the reporting of 
child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 214. Extension of Certain Adjudication Provisions.--The 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
        (1) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
            (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``1997, 1998, and 
        1999'' and inserting ``1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000''; and
            (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``October 1, 1999'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``October 1, 2000''; and
        (2) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in subsection (b)(2), 
    by striking ``September 30, 1999'' and inserting ``September 30, 
    2000''.
    Sec. 215. None of the funds provided in this Act or in any other 
Act making appropriations for fiscal year 2000 may be used to 
administer or implement in Arizona or in the Kansas City, Missouri or 
in the Kansas City, Kansas area the Medicare Competitive Pricing 
Demonstration Project (operated by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services under authority granted in section 4011 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33)).
    Sec. 216. Of the funds appropriated for the National Institutes of 
Health for fiscal year 2000, $7,500,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until September 29, 2000. Of the funds appropriated for the 
Health Resources and Services Administration for fiscal year 2000, 
$1,120,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until September 
29, 2000. Of the funds appropriated for the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention for fiscal year 2000, $965,000,000 shall not be 
available for obligation until September 29, 2000. Of the funds 
appropriated for the Children and Families Services Programs for fiscal 
year 2000, $400,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 29, 2000. Of the funds appropriated for the Social Services 
Block Grant for fiscal year 2000, $425,000,000 shall not be available 
for obligation until September 29, 2000. Of the funds appropriated for 
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for 
fiscal year 2000, $450,000,000 shall not be available for obligation 
until September 29, 2000.
    Sec. 217. Study and Report on the Geographic Adjustment Factors 
Under the Medicare Program. (a) Study.--The Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall conduct a study on--
        (1) the reasons why, and the appropriateness of the fact that, 
    the geographic adjustment factor (determined under paragraph (2) of 
    section 1848(e) (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(e)) used in determining the 
    amount of payment for physicians' services under the Medicare 
    program is less for physicians' services provided in New Mexico 
    than for physicians' services provided in Arizona, Colorado, and 
    Texas; and
        (2) the effect that the level of the geographic cost-of-
    practice adjustment factor (determined under paragraph (3) of such 
    section) has on the recruitment and retention of physicians in 
    small rural States, including New Mexico, Iowa, Louisiana, and 
    Arkansas.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
submit a report to Congress on the study conducted under subsection 
(a), together with any recommendations for legislation that the 
Secretary determines to be appropriate as a result of such study.
    Sec. 218. Withholding of Substance Abuse Funds. (a) In General.--
None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to withhold 
substance abuse funding from a State pursuant to section 1926 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-26) if such State certifies 
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that the State will 
commit additional State funds, in accordance with subsection (b), to 
ensure compliance with State laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco 
products to individuals under 18 years of age.
    (b) Amount of State Funds.--The amount of funds to be committed by 
a State under subsection (a) shall be equal to 1 percent of such 
State's substance abuse block grant allocation for each percentage 
point by which the State misses the retailer compliance rate goal 
established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 
1926 of such Act, except that the Secretary may agree to a smaller 
commitment of additional funds by the State.
    (c) Supplement not Supplant.--Amounts expended by a State pursuant 
to a certification under subsection (a) shall be used to supplement and 
not supplant State funds used for tobacco prevention programs and for 
compliance activities described in such subsection in the fiscal year 
preceding the fiscal year to which this section applies.
    (d) Enforcement of State Expenditure.--The Secretary shall exercise 
discretion in enforcing the timing of the State expenditure required by 
the certification described in subsection (a) as late as July 31, 2000.
    Sec. 219. None of the funds made available under this title may be 
used to carry out the transmittal of August 13, 1997 (relating to self-
administered drugs) of the Deputy Director of the Division of Acute 
Care of the Health Care Financing Administration to regional offices of 
such Administration or to promulgate any regulation or other 
transmittal or policy directive that has the effect of imposing (or 
clarifying the imposition of) a restriction on the coverage of 
injectable drugs under section 1861(s)(2) of the Social Security Act 
beyond the restrictions applied before the date of such transmittal.
    Sec. 220. In accordance with section 1557 of title 31, United 
States Code, funds obligated and awarded in fiscal years 1994 and 1995 
under the heading ``National Cancer Institute'' for the Cancer Therapy 
and Research Center in San Antonio, Texas, grant numbers 1 C06 CA58690-
01 and 3 C06 CA58690-01S1, shall be exempt from subchapter IV of 
chapter 15 of such title and the obligated unexpended dollars shall 
remain available to the grantee for expenditure without fiscal year 
limitation to fulfill the purpose of the award.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                   TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION


                             Education Reform

    For carrying out activities authorized by titles III and IV of the 
Goals 2000: Educate America Act, the School-to-Work Opportunities Act, 
and sections 3122, 3132, 3136, and 3141, parts B, C, and D of title 
III, and part I of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, $1,586,560,000, of which $456,500,000 for the Goals 2000: 
Educate America Act and $55,000,000 for the School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act shall become available on July 1, 2000 and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, and of which $87,000,000 shall be 
for section 3122: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be obligated or expended to carry out section 
304(a)(2)(A) of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, except that no 
more than $1,500,000 may be used to carry out activities under section 
314(a)(2) of that Act: Provided further, That section 315(a)(2) of the 
Goals 2000: Educate America Act shall not apply: Provided further, That 
up to one-half of 1 percent of the amount available under section 3132 
shall be set aside for the outlying areas, to be distributed on the 
basis of their relative need as determined by the Secretary in 
accordance with the purposes of the program: Provided further, That if 
any State educational agency does not apply for a grant under section 
3132, that State's allotment under section 3131 shall be reserved by 
the Secretary for grants to local educational agencies in that State 
that apply directly to the Secretary according to the terms and 
conditions published by the Secretary in the Federal Register: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available to carry out section 3136 and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $500,000 shall be awarded 
to the Houston Independent School District for technology 
infrastructure, $8,000,000 shall be awarded to the I CAN LEARN program, 
$2,000,000 shall be awarded to the Linking Education Technology and 
Educational Reform (LINKS) project for educational technology, 
$1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Center for Advanced Research and 
Technology (CART) for comprehensive secondary education reform, 
$250,000 shall be awarded to the Vaughn Reno Starks Community Center in 
Elizabethtown, Kentucky for a technology program, $125,000 shall be 
awarded to the Wyandanch Compel Youth Academy Educational Assistance 
Program in New York, $3,000,000 shall be awarded to Hi-Technology High 
School in San Bernardino County, California for technology enhancement, 
$300,000 shall be awarded to the Long Island 21st Century Technology 
and E-Commerce Alliance, $800,000 shall be awarded to Montana State 
University for a distance learning initiative, $2,000,000 for the 
Tupelo School District in Tupelo, Mississippi for technology innovation 
in education, $900,000 for the University of Alaska at Anchorage for 
distance learning education, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Seton 
Hill College in Greensburg, Pennsylvania for a model education 
technology training program, $500,000 shall be awarded to the 
University of Alaska-Fairbanks, in Fairbanks, Alaska for a teacher 
technology training program, $200,000 shall be awarded to the Alaska 
Department of Education for the Alaska State Distance Education 
Technology Consortium, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the North East 
Vocational Area Cooperative in Washington State for a multi-district 
technology education center, $400,000 shall be awarded to the 
University of Vermont for the Vermont Learning Gateway Program, 
$2,500,000 shall be awarded to the State University of New Jersey for 
the RUNet 2000 project at Rutgers for an integrated voice-video-data 
network to link students, faculty and administration via a high-speed, 
broad band fiber optic network, $500,000 shall be awarded to the Iowa 
Area Education Agency 13 for a public/private partnership to 
demonstrate the effective use of technology in grades 1-3, $235,000 
shall be for the Louisville Deaf Oral School for technology 
enhancements: Provided further, That in the State of Alabama $50,000 
shall be awarded to the Bibb County Board of Education for technology 
enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Calhoun County Board of 
Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the 
Chambers County Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 
shall be awarded to the Chilton County Board of Education for 
technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Clay County 
Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be 
awarded to the Cleburne County Board of Education for technology 
enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Coosa County Board of 
Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the 
Lee County Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 
shall be awarded to the Macon County Board of Education for technology 
enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the St. Clair County Board of 
Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the 
Talladega County Board of Education for technology enhancements, 
$50,000 shall be awarded to the Tallapoosa County Board of Education 
for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Randolph 
County Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be 
awarded to the Russell County Board of Education for technology 
enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Alexander City Board of 
Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the 
Anniston City Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 
shall be awarded to the Lanett City Board of Education for technology 
enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the Pell City Board of 
Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 shall be awarded to the 
Roanoke City Board of Education for technology enhancements, $50,000 
shall be awarded to the Talledega City Board of Education for 
technology enhancements and $500,000 shall be to continue a state-of-
the-art information technology system at Mansfield University, 
Mansfield, Pennsylvania: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available to carry out title III, part B of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 and notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $750,000 shall be awarded to the Technology Literacy Center at 
the Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago, $1,000,000 shall be 
awarded to an on-line math and science training program at Oklahoma 
State University, $4,000,000 shall be awarded to continue and expand 
the Iowa Communications Network statewide fiber optic demonstration 
project: Provided further, That of the funds made available for title 
X, part I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $6,000 shall be awarded to 
the Study Partners Program, Inc., in Louisville, Kentucky, $12,000 
shall be awarded to the Shawnee Gardens Tenants Association Inc., in 
Louisville, Kentucky for a tutorial program, $12,000 shall be awarded 
to the 100 Black Men of Louisville, Kentucky for a mentoring and 
leadership training program, $500,000 shall be awarded to the Omaha, 
Nebraska Public Schools for the OPS 21st Century Learning Grant, 
$25,000 shall be for the Plymouth Renewal Center in Kentucky for a 
tutoring program, $25,000 shall be for the Canaan Community Development 
Corporation's Village Learning Center Program, $25,000 shall be for the 
St. Stephen Life Center After School Program, $25,000 shall be for the 
Louisville Central Community Centers Youth Education Program, $15,000 
shall be for the Trinity Family Life Center tutoring program, $15,000 
shall be for the New Zion Community Development Foundation, Inc., after 
school mentoring program, $20,000 shall be for the St. Joseph Catholic 
Orphan Society program for abused and neglected children, $25,000 shall 
be for the Portland Neighborhood House after school program, and 
$25,000 shall be for the St. Anthony Community Outreach Center, Inc., 
for the Education PAYs program.


                     Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, and section 418A of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
$8,547,986,000, of which $2,317,823,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2000, and shall remain available through September 30, 2001, and of 
which $6,204,763,000 shall become available on October 1, 2000 and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2001, for academic year 
2000-2001: Provided, That $6,649,000,000 shall be available for basic 
grants under section 1124: Provided further, That up to $3,500,000 of 
these funds shall be available to the Secretary on October 1, 1999, to 
obtain updated local-educational-agency-level census poverty data from 
the Bureau of the Census: Provided further, That $1,158,397,000 shall 
be available for concentration grants under section 1124A: Provided 
further, That $8,900,000 shall be available for evaluations under 
section 1501 and not more than $8,500,000 shall be reserved for section 
1308, of which not more than $3,000,000 shall be reserved for section 
1308(d): Provided further, That grant awards under sections 1124 and 
1124A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
shall be made to each State and local educational agency at no less 
than 100 percent of the amount such State or local educational agency 
received under this authority for fiscal year 1999: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, grant awards under 
section 1124A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 shall be made to those local educational agencies that received 
a Concentration Grant under the Department of Education Appropriations 
Act, 1998, but are not eligible to receive such a grant for fiscal year 
2000: Provided further, That each such local educational agency shall 
receive an amount equal to the Concentration Grant the agency received 
in fiscal year 1998, ratably reduced, if necessary, to ensure that 
these local educational agencies receive no greater share of their 
hold-harmless amounts than other local educational agencies: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall not take into account the hold 
harmless provisions in this section in determining State allocations 
under any other program administered by the Secretary in any fiscal 
year: Provided further, That $160,000,000 shall be available under 
section 1002(g)(2) to demonstrate effective approaches to comprehensive 
school reform to be allocated and expended in accordance with the 
instructions relating to this activity in the statement of the managers 
on the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-78 and in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying Public 
Law 105-277: Provided further, That in carrying out this initiative, 
the Secretary and the States shall support only approaches that show 
the most promise of enabling children served by title I to meet 
challenging State content standards and challenging State student 
performance standards based on reliable research and effective 
practices, and include an emphasis on basic academics and parental 
involvement.


                                Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $910,500,000, of which $737,200,000 
shall be for basic support payments under section 8003(b), $50,000,000 
shall be for payments for children with disabilities under section 
8003(d), $76,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
payments under section 8003(f), $10,300,000 shall be for construction 
under section 8007, $32,000,000 shall be for Federal property payments 
under section 8002 and $5,000,000 to remain available until expended 
shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008: Provided, That 
of the funds available for section 8007 and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $500,000 shall be awarded to the Fort Sam Houston 
Independent School District, Texas, $800,000 shall be awarded to the 
Hays Lodgepole School District, Montana, and $2,000,000 shall be 
awarded to the North Chicago Community Unit SD 187: Provided further, 
That these funds shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Education shall treat as timely filed, 
and shall process for payment, an application for a fiscal year 1999 
payment from the local educational agency for Brookeland, Texas under 
section 8002 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 if 
the Secretary has received that application not later than 30 days 
after the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That section 8002(f) 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is amended by 
adding a new paragraph ``(3)'' at the end to read as follows:
        ``(3) For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2000, the 
    Secretary shall treat the Central Union, California; Island, 
    California; Hill City, South Dakota; and Wall, South Dakota local 
    educational agencies as meeting the eligibility requirements of 
    subsection (a)(1)(C) of this section.'':
Provided further, That the Secretary of Education shall consider all 
payments received by the educational agency for Hatboro-Horsham and 
Delaware Valley, Pennsylvania for fiscal year 1995 under section 
8002(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7702(a)), and all payments under section 8002(h)(2)(A) for 
subsequent years through fiscal year 1999, to be correct: Provided 
further, That section 8002(f) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 is amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph (4) 
to read as follows:
        ``(4) For the purposes of payments under this section for each 
    fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2000, the Secretary shall 
    treat the Hot Springs, South Dakota local educational agency as if 
    it had filed a timely application under section 8002 of the 
    Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 for fiscal year 1994 
    if the Secretary has received the fiscal year 1994 application, as 
    well as Exhibits A and B not later than December 1, 1999.'':
Provided further, That section 8002(f) of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 is amended by adding at the end thereof a new 
paragraph (5) to read as follows:
        ``(5) For purposes of payments under this section for each 
    fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2000, the Secretary shall 
    treat the Hueneme, California local educational agency as if it had 
    filed a timely application under section 8002 of the Elementary and 
    Secondary Education Act of 1965 if the Secretary has received the 
    fiscal year 1995 application not later than December 1, 1999.'':
Provided further, That the Secretary of Education shall treat as timely 
filed, and shall process for payment, an application for a fiscal year 
1998 payment from the local educational agency for Hydaburg, Alaska, 
under section 8003 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 if the Secretary has received that application not later than 30 
days after the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Education shall treat as timely, and process for payment, 
an application for fiscal years 1996 and 1997 payment from the local 
education agency for Fallbrook Unified High School District, 
California, under section 8002 of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, if the Secretary has received that application 
not later than 30 days after the enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That for the purpose of computing the amount of a payment for 
a local educational agency for children identified under section 8003 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, children 
residing in housing initially acquired or constructed under section 801 
of the Military Construction Authorization Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-
115) (``Build to Lease'' program) shall be considered as children 
described under section 8003(a)(1)(B) if the property described is 
within the fenced security perimeter of the military facility upon 
which such housing is situated: Provided further, That if such property 
is not owned by the Federal Government, is subject to taxation by a 
State or political subdivision of a State, and thereby generates 
revenues for a local educational agency which received a payment from 
the Secretary under section 8003, the Secretary shall: (1) require such 
local educational agency to provide certification from an appropriate 
official of the Department of Defense that such property is being used 
to provide military housing; and (2) reduce the amount of such payment 
by an amount equal to the amount of revenue from such taxation received 
in the second preceding fiscal year by such local educational agency, 
unless the amount of such revenue was taken into account by the State 
for such second preceding fiscal year and already resulted in a 
reduction in the amount of State aid paid to such local educational 
agency.


                       School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by titles 
II, IV, V-A and B, VI, IX, X, and XIII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA''); the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and part B of title 
VIII of the Higher Education Act of 1965; $2,926,134,000, of which 
$875,300,000 shall become available on July 1, 2000, and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, and of which $1,530,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2000 and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2001 for academic year 2000-2001: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated, $335,000,000 shall be for Eisenhower professional 
development State grants under title II-B and $380,000,000 shall be for 
title VI and up to $750,000 shall be for an evaluation of comprehensive 
regional assistance centers under title XIII of ESEA: Provided further, 
That $1,200,000,000 is for a class size/teacher assistance initiative 
to be distributed as described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
307(b)(1) of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1999. 
School districts may use the funds for class size reduction activities 
as described in section 307(c)(2)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Department of 
Education Appropriations Act, 1999: Provided further, That, if the 
local educational agency determines that it wishes to use the funds for 
purposes other than class size reduction as part of a local strategy 
for improving academic achievement, funds may be used for professional 
development activities, teacher training or any other local need that 
is designed to improve student performance: Provided further, That each 
such agency shall use funds under this section only to supplement, and 
not to supplant, State and local funds, that in absence of such funds, 
would otherwise be spent for activities under this section.


                            READING EXCELLENCE

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Reading Excellence Act, 
$65,000,000, which shall become available on July 1, 2000 and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2001 and $195,000,000 which 
shall become available on October 1, 2000 and remain available through 
September 30, 2001.


                             indian education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title IX, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, as amended, $77,000,000.


                    Bilingual and Immigrant Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, bilingual, 
foreign language and immigrant education activities authorized by parts 
A and C and section 7203 of title VII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, without regard to section 7103(b), $387,000,000: 
Provided, That State educational agencies may use all, or any part of, 
their part C allocation for competitive grants to local educational 
agencies.


                            Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 
$6,036,646,000, of which $2,047,885,000 shall become available for 
obligation on July 1, 2000, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2001, and of which $3,742,000,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2000 and shall remain available through September 30, 
2001, for academic year 2000-2001: Provided, That $1,500,000 shall be 
for the recipient of funds provided by Public Law 105-78 under section 
687(b)(2)(G) of the Act to provide information on diagnosis, 
intervention, and teaching strategies for children with disabilities: 
Provided further, That $1,500,000 shall be awarded to the Organizing 
Committee for the 2001 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Alaska 
and $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Salt Lake City Organizing 
Committee for the VIII Paralympic Winter Games: Provided further, That 
$1,000,000 shall be for the Early Childhood Development Project of the 
National Easter Seal Society for the Mississippi Delta Region, which 
funds shall be used to provide training, technical support, services 
and equipment to address personnel and other needs: Provided further, 
That $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Center for Literacy and 
Assessment at the University of Southern Mississippi for research 
dissemination and teacher and parent training.


             Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, and 
the Helen Keller National Center Act, $2,701,772,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 105(b)(1) of the Assistive Technology Act of 
1998 (``the AT Act''), each State shall be provided $50,000 for 
activities under section 102 of the AT Act: Provided further, That of 
the funds available for section 303 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
and notwithstanding any other provision of law, $750,000 shall be 
awarded to the Krasnow Institute at George Mason University for a 
Receptive Language Disorders research center, $1,000,000 shall be 
awarded to the University of Central Florida for a virtual reality-
based education and training program for the deaf, $2,000,000 shall be 
awarded to the Seattle Lighthouse for the Blind for interpreter, 
orientation, mobility, and education services for deaf, blind and other 
visually impaired adults, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the 
Professional Development and Research Institute on Blindness in 
Louisiana for the training of professionals in the field of education 
and rehabilitation of blind adults and children, and $600,000 shall be 
awarded to the Alaska Center for Independent Living in Anchorage, 
Alaska to develop capacity to implement a self-directed model for 
personal assistance services, including training of self-employed 
personal assistants and their clients: Provided further, That of the 
funds available for section 305 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $1,000,000 shall be awarded 
to the California State University at Northridge for a Western Center 
for Adaptive Therapy.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities


                  american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, as amended (20 U.S.C. 
101 et seq.), $10,100,000.


                national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et 
seq.), $48,151,000, of which $2,651,000 shall be for construction and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That from the total 
amount available, the Institute may at its discretion use funds for the 
endowment program as authorized under section 207.


                           gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), $85,980,000, of which $2,500,000 shall 
be for construction and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That from the total amount available, the University may at 
its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized under 
section 207.


                      Vocational and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act, the Adult Education and 
Family Literacy Act, and title VIII-D of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, as amended, and Public Law 102-73, $1,656,750,000, of which 
$3,500,000 shall remain available until expended, and of which 
$833,150,000 shall become available on July 1, 2000 and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2001 and of which $791,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2000 and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the amounts made available for 
the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act, $4,600,000 
shall be for tribally controlled vocational institutions under section 
117: Provided further, That $9,000,000 shall be for carrying out 
section 118 of such act for all activities conducted by and through the 
National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available for the Adult Education and 
Family Literacy Act, $14,000,000 shall be for national leadership 
activities under section 243 and $6,000,000 shall be for the National 
Institute for Literacy under section 242: Provided further, That 
$19,000,000 shall be for Youth Offender Grants, of which $5,000,000, 
which shall become available on July 1, 2000, and remain available 
through September 30, 2001, shall be used in accordance with section 
601 of Public Law 102-73 as that section was in effect prior to the 
enactment of Public Law 105-220.


                       Student Financial Assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3 and 4 of part A, part C and part E 
of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 
$9,435,000,000, which shall remain available through September 30, 
2001.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2000-2001 shall be $3,300: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 401(g) of the Act, if the Secretary determines, prior to 
publication of the payment schedule for such award year, that the 
amount included within this appropriation for Pell Grant awards in such 
award year, and any funds available from the fiscal year 1999 
appropriation for Pell Grant awards, are insufficient to satisfy fully 
all such awards for which students are eligible, as calculated under 
section 401(b) of the Act, the amount paid for each such award shall be 
reduced by either a fixed or variable percentage, or by a fixed dollar 
amount, as determined in accordance with a schedule of reductions 
established by the Secretary for this purpose.
    For an additional amount for ``student financial assistance'' for 
payment of allocations to institutions of higher education for Federal 
Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants for award years 1999-2000 
and 2000-2001, made under title IV, part A, subpart 3, of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, as amended, $10,000,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Education 
may waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision applicable to 
the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant program and the 
determination of need for such grants, that the Secretary deems 
necessary to assist individuals who suffered financial harm resulting 
from the hurricanes, and the flooding associated with the hurricanes, 
that struck the eastern United States in August and September 1999, and 
who, at the time of the disaster were residing, attending an 
institution of higher education, or employed within an area affected by 
such a disaster on the date which the President declared the existence 
of a major disaster (or, in the case of an individual who is a 
dependent student, whose parent or stepparent suffered financial harm 
from such disaster, and who resided, or was employed in such an area at 
that time): Provided further, That notwithstanding section 437 of the 
General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232) and section 553 of 
title 5, United States Code, the Secretary shall, by notice in the 
Federal Register, exercise this authority, through publication of 
waivers or modifications of statutory and regulatory provisions, as the 
Secretary deems necessary to assist such individuals: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 413D of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
allocations from such additional amount shall not be taken into account 
in determining institutional allocations under such section in future 
years: Provided further, That the entire amount made available under 
this paragraph is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and that the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for the 
entire amount, that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.


              federal family education loan program account

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out guaranteed student 
loans authorized by title IV, part B, of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, as amended, $48,000,000.


                             Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, section 121 
and titles II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the Higher Education 
Act of 1965, as amended, and the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961; $1,466,826,000, of which $12,000,000 for interest 
subsidies authorized by section 121 of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds available for part A, subpart 2 of title VII of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, $10,000,000 shall be available to fund awards 
for academic year 2000-2001, and $10,000,000 to remain available 
through September 30, 2001, shall be available to fund awards for 
academic year 2001-2002, for fellowships under part A, subpart 1 of 
title VII of said Act, under the terms and conditions of part A, 
subpart 1: Provided further, That section 852(b)(1) of the Higher 
Education Amendments of 1998 is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
    ``14'' and inserting ``16'';
        (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' after the 
    semicolon;
        (3) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period and inserting a 
    semicolon; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) one member shall be appointed by the Chairperson of 
        the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
        Senate from among members of the Senate; and
            ``(H) one member shall be appointed by the Chairperson of 
        the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of 
        Representatives from among members of the House of 
        Representatives.'':
Provided further, That the matter preceding paragraph (1) of section 
853(b) of the Higher Education Amendments of 1998 is amended by 
striking ``6 months'' and inserting ``12 months'': Provided further, 
That the amounts provided under this heading in division A, section 
101(f) of Public Law 105-277 for the Web-Based Education Commission, 
authorized by part J of title VIII of the Higher Education Amendments 
of 1998, shall remain available through September 30, 2000: Provided 
further, That $3,000,000 is for data collection and evaluation 
activities for programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
including such activities needed to comply with the Government 
Performance and Results Act of 1993: Provided further, That of the 
funds available for title IV, part A, subpart 8 of the Higher Education 
Act of 1965 and notwithstanding any other provision of law, $3,000,000 
shall be awarded to the University of South Florida for a distance 
learning program, $190,000 shall be awarded to the New York Global 
Communication Center in West Islip, New York for a distance learning 
program, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Alliance for Technology, 
Learning and Society (ATLAS) at the University of Colorado for 
technology-enhanced learning, $2,500,000 shall be awarded to the 
Illinois Community College Board to develop a systemwide, on-line 
virtual degree program for the community college system in Illinois, 
and $1,250,000 shall be made available to the University of Idaho 
Interactive Learning Environments to develop and improve Internet-based 
delivery of education programs.


                            howard university

    For partial support of Howard University (20 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), 
$219,444,000, of which not less than $3,530,000 shall be for a matching 
endowment grant pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act (Public 
Law 98-480) and shall remain available until expended.


          college housing and academic facilities loans program

    For Federal administrative expenses authorized under section 121 of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, $737,000 to carry out activities 
related to existing facility loans entered into under the Higher 
Education Act of 1965.


   Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    The total amount of bonds insured pursuant to section 344 of title 
III, part D of the Higher Education Act of 1965 shall not exceed 
$357,000,000, and the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of such bonds shall not exceed zero.
    For administrative expenses to carry out the Historically Black 
College and University Capital Financing Program entered into pursuant 
to title III, part D of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 
$207,000.


             Education Research, Statistics, and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Educational Research, 
Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994, including part 
E; the National Education Statistics Act of 1994, including sections 
411 and 412; section 2102 of title II, and parts A, B, and K and 
section 10102 and section 10601 of title X, and part C of title XIII of 
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, and 
title VI of Public Law 103-227, $492,679,000: Provided, That 
$25,000,000 shall be available to demonstrate effective approaches to 
comprehensive school reform, to be allocated and expended in accordance 
with the instructions relating to this activity in the statement of 
managers on the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-78 and in 
the statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying 
Public Law 105-277: Provided further, That the funds made available for 
comprehensive school reform shall become available on July 1, 2000, and 
remain available through September 30, 2001, and in carrying out this 
initiative, the Secretary and the States shall support only approaches 
that show the most promise of enabling children to meet challenging 
State content standards and challenging State student performance 
standards based on reliable research and effective practices, and 
include an emphasis on basic academics and parental involvement: 
Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the funds provided for the 
national education research institutes shall be allocated 
notwithstanding subparagrphs (B) and (C) of section 931(c)(2) of Public 
Law 103-227: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
section 10601 of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965, as amended, $1,500,000 shall be used to conduct a violence 
prevention demonstration program: Provided further, That of the funds 
available for part A of title X of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, $10,000,000 shall be awarded to the National 
Constitution Center, established by Public Law 100-433, for exhibition 
design, program planning and operation of the center, $10,000,000 shall 
be provided to continue a demonstration of public school facilities to 
the Iowa Department of Education, $1,000,000 shall be made available to 
the New Mexico Department of Education for school performance 
improvement and drop-out prevention, $300,000 shall be made available 
to Semos Unlimited, Inc., in New Mexico to support bilingual education 
and literacy programs, $700,000 shall be awarded to Loyola University 
Chicago for recruitment and preparation of new teacher candidates for 
employment in rural and inner-city schools, $500,000 shall be awarded 
to Shedd Aquarium/Brookfield Zoo for science education/exposure 
programs for local elementary school students, $3,000,000 shall be 
awarded to Big Brothers/Big Sisters of America to expand school-based 
mentoring, $2,500,000 shall be awarded to the Chicago Public School 
System to support a substance abuse pilot program in conjunction with 
Elgin and East Aurora School Systems, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to 
the University of Virginia Center for Governmental Studies for the 
Youth Leadership Initiative, $800,000 shall be awarded to the Institute 
for Student Achievement at Holmes Middle School and Annandale High 
School in Virginia for academic enrichment programs, $100,000 shall be 
awarded to the Mountain Arts Center for educational programming, 
$1,500,000 shall be awarded to the University of Louisville for 
research in the area of academic readiness, $500,000 shall be awarded 
to the West Ed Regional Educational Laboratory for the 24 Challenge and 
Jumping Levels Math Demonstration Project, $1,000,000 shall be awarded 
to Central Michigan University for a charter schools development and 
performance institute, $950,000 shall be awarded to the Living Science 
Interactive Learning Model partnership in Indian River, Florida for a 
science education program, $825,000 shall be awarded to the North 
Babylon Community Youth Services for an educational program, $1,000,000 
shall be awarded to the Los Angeles County Office of Education/
Educational Telecommunications and Technology for a pilot program for 
teachers, $650,000 shall be awarded to the University of Northern Iowa 
for an institute of technology for inclusive education, $500,000 shall 
be awarded to Youth Crime Watch of America to expand a program to 
prevent crime, drugs and violence in schools, $892,000 shall be awarded 
to Muhlenberg College in Pennsylvania for an environmental science 
program, $560,000 shall be awarded to the Western Suffolk St. Johns-
LaSalle Academy Science and Technology Mentoring Program, $4,000,000 
shall be awarded to the National Teaching Academy of Chicago for a 
model teacher recruitment, preparation and professional development 
program, $2,000,000 shall be awarded to the University of West Florida 
for a teacher enhancement program, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to Delta 
State University in Mississippi for innovative teacher training, 
$1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Alaska Humanities Forum, Inc., in 
Anchorage, Alaska, $250,000 shall be awarded to An Achievable Dream in 
Newport News, Virginia to improve academic performance of at-risk 
youths, $250,000 shall be awarded to the Rock School of Ballet in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to expand its community-outreach programs 
for inner-city children and underprivileged youth in Camden, New Jersey 
and southern New Jersey, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the University 
of Maryland Center for Quality and Productivity to provide a link for 
the Blue Ribbon Schools, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Continuing 
Education Center and Teachers' Institute in South Boston, Virginia to 
promote participation among youth in the United States democratic 
process, $1,000,000 shall be for the National Museum of Women in the 
Arts to expand its ``Discovering Art'' program to elementary and 
secondary schools and other educational organizations, $400,000 shall 
be awarded to the Alaska Department of Education's summer reading 
program, $400,000 shall be awarded to the Partners in Education, Inc., 
to foster successful business-school partnerships, $250,000 shall be 
for the Kodiak Island Borough School District for development of an 
environmental education program, $2,000,000 shall be for the Reach Out 
and Read Program to expand literacy and health awareness for at-risk 
families, $1,000,000 shall be for the Virginia Living Museum in Newport 
News, Virginia for an educational program, $450,000 shall be for the 
Challenger Learning Center in Hardin County, Kentucky for technology 
assistance and teacher training, $250,000 shall be for the Crawford 
County School System in Georgia for technology and curriculum support, 
$500,000 shall be for the Berrien County School System in Georgia for 
technology development, $35,000 shall be for the Louisville Salvation 
Army Boys and Girls Club Diversion Enhancement Program, $100,000 shall 
be awarded to the Philadelphia Orchestra's Philly Pops to operate the 
Jazz in the Schools program in the Philadelphia school district, 
$500,000 for the Mississippi Delta Education for a teacher incentive 
program initiative, $500,000 shall be for enhanced teacher training in 
reading in the District of Columbia, and $100,000 shall be awarded to 
the Project 2000 D.C. mentoring project: Provided further, That of the 
funds available for section 10601 of title X of such Act, $2,000,000 
shall be awarded to the Center for Educational Technologies for 
production and distribution of an effective CD-ROM product that would 
complement the ``We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution'' 
curriculum: Provided further, That, in addition to the funds for title 
VI of Public Law 103-227 and notwithstanding the provisions of section 
601(c)(1)(C) of that Act, $1,000,000 shall be available to the Center 
for Civic Education to conduct a civic education program with Northern 
Ireland and the Republic of Ireland and, consistent with the civics and 
Government activities authorized in section 601(c)(3) of Public Law 
103-227, to provide civic education assistance to democracies in 
developing countries. The term ``developing countries'' shall have the 
same meaning as the term ``developing country'' in the Education for 
the Deaf Act.

                        Departmental Management


                          program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of two passenger 
motor vehicles, $370,184,000.


                         office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $71,200,000.


                       office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $34,000,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of 
equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial 
imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, 
except for a student requiring special education, to the school 
offering such special education, in order to comply with title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
indirect requirement of transportation of students includes the 
transportation of students to carry out a plan involving the 
reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of 
schools, or the clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing or clustering. The prohibition described in this 
section does not include the establishment of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303. No funds appropriated under this Act may be used to 
prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and 
meditation in the public schools.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended) which are appropriated for the Department of 
Education in this Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no 
such appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any 
such transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any 
transfer.
    Sec. 305. (a) From the funds appropriated for payments to local 
educational agencies under section 8003(f) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') for fiscal year 2000, the 
Secretary of Education shall distribute supplemental payments for 
certain local educational agencies, as follows:
        (1) First, from the amount of $74,000,000, the Secretary shall 
    make supplemental payments to the following agencies under section 
    8003(f) of ESEA:
            (A) Local educational agencies that received assistance 
        under section 8003(f) for fiscal year 1999--
                (i) in fiscal year 1997 had at least 40 percent 
            federally connected children described in section 
            8003(a)(1) in average daily attendance; and in fiscal year 
            1997 had a tax rate for general fund purposes which was at 
            least 95 percent of the State average tax rate for general 
            fund purposes; or
                (ii) whose boundary is coterminous with the boundary of 
            a Federal military installation.
            (B) Local educational agencies that received assistance 
        under section 8003(f) for fiscal year 1999; and in fiscal year 
        1997 had at least 30 percent federally connected children 
        described in section 8003(a)(1) in average daily attendance; 
        and in fiscal year 1997 had a tax rate for general fund 
        purposes which was at least 125 percent of the State average 
        tax rate for general fund purposes.
            (C) Any eligible local educational agency that in fiscal 
        year 1997, which had at least 25,000 children in average daily 
        attendance, at least 50 percent federally connected children 
        described in section 8003(a)(1) in average daily attendance, 
        and at least 6,000 children described in subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) of section 8003(a)(1) in average daily attendance.
        (2) From the remaining $2,000,000 and any amounts available 
    after making payments under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall then 
    make supplemental payments to local educational agencies that are 
    not described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, but that meet 
    the requirements of paragraphs (2) and (4) of section 8003(f) of 
    ESEA for fiscal year 2000.
        (3) After making payments to all eligible local educational 
    agencies described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a), the 
    Secretary shall use any remaining funds from paragraph (2) for 
    making payments to the eligible local educational agencies 
    described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) if the amount 
    available under paragraph (1) is insufficient to fully fund all 
    eligible local educational agencies.
        (4) After making payments to all eligible local educational 
    agencies as described in paragraphs 1 through 3, the Secretary 
    shall use any remaining funds to increase basic support payments 
    under section 8003(b) for fiscal year 2000 for all eligible 
    applicants.
    (b) In calculating the amounts of supplemental payments for 
agencies described in subparagraphs (1)(A) and (B) and paragraph (2) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall use the formula contained in 
section 8003(b)(1)(C) of ESEA, except that--
        (1) eligible local educational agencies may count all children 
    described in section 8003(a)(1) in computing the amount of those 
    payments;
        (2) maximum payments for any of those agencies that use local 
    contribution rates identified in section 8003(b)(1)(C) (i) or (ii) 
    shall be computed by using four-fifths instead of one-half of those 
    rates;
        (3) the learning opportunity threshold percentage of all such 
    agencies under section 8003(b)(2)(B) shall be deemed to be 100;
        (4) for an eligible local educational agency with 35 percent or 
    more of its children in average daily attendance described in 
    either subparagraph (D) or (E) of section 8003(a)(1) in fiscal year 
    1997, the weighted student unit figure from its regular basic 
    support payment shall be recomputed by using a factor of 0.55 for 
    such children;
        (5) for an eligible local educational agency with fewer than 
    100 children in average daily attendance in fiscal year 1997, the 
    weighted student unit figure from its regular basic support payment 
    shall be recomputed by multiplying the total number of children 
    described in section 8003(a)(1) by a factor of 1.75; and
        (6) for an eligible local educational agency whose total number 
    of children in average daily attendance in fiscal year 1997 was at 
    least 100, but fewer than 750, the weighted student unit figure 
    from its regular basic support payment shall be recomputed by 
    multiplying the total number of children described in section 
    8003(a)(1) by a factor of 1.25.
    (c) For a local educational agency described in subsection 
(a)(1)(C) above, the Secretary shall use the formula contained in 
section 8003(b)(1)(C) of ESEA, except that the weighted student unit 
total from its regular basic support payment shall be recomputed by 
using a factor of 1.35 for children described in subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) of section 8003(a)(1) and its learning opportunity threshold 
percentage shall be deemed to be 100.
    (d) For each eligible local educational agency, the calculated 
supplemental section 8003(f) payment shall be reduced by subtracting 
the agency's fiscal year 2000 section 8003(b) basic support payment.
    (e) If the sums described in subsections (a)(1) and (2) above are 
insufficient to pay in full the calculated supplemental payments for 
the local educational agencies identified in those subsections, the 
Secretary shall ratably reduce the supplemental section 8003(f) payment 
to each local educational agency.
    Sec. 306. (a) Section 1204(b)(1)(A) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6364(b)(1)(a)) is amended--
        (1) in clause (iv), by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
        (2) by striking clause (v) and adding the following:
        ``(v) 50 percent in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth such 
    years; and
        ``(vi) 35 percent in any subsequent such year.''.
    (b) Section 1208(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
        ``(3) Continuing eligibility.--In awarding subgrant funds to 
    continue a program under this part after the first year, the State 
    educational agency shall review the progress of each eligible 
    entity in meeting the goals of the program referred to in section 
    1207(c)(1)(A) and shall evaluate the program based on the 
    indicators of program quality developed by the State under section 
    1210.''; and
        (2) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking the last sentence.
    Sec. 307. (a) Notwithstanding sections 401(j) and 435(a)(2) of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a(j) and 1085(a)(2)) and 
subject to the requirements of subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Education shall--
        (1) recalculate the official fiscal year 1996 cohort default 
    rate for Jacksonville College of Jacksonville, Texas, on the basis 
    of data corrections confirmed by the Texas Guaranteed Student Loan 
    Corporation; and
        (2) restore the eligibility of Jacksonville College to 
    participate in the Federal Pell Grant Program for the 1999-2000 
    award year and succeeding award years.
    (b) Jacksonville College shall implement a default management plan 
that is satisfactory to the Secretary of Education.
    (c) For purposes of determining its Federal Pell Grant Program 
eligibility, Jacksonville College shall be deemed to have withdrawn 
from the Federal Family Education Loan program as of October 6, 1998.
    Sec. 308. An amount of $14,500,000 from the balances of returned 
reserve funds, formerly held by the Higher Education Assistance 
Foundation, that are currently held in Higher Education Assistance 
Foundation Claims Reserves, Treasury account number 91X6192, and 
$12,000,000 from funds formerly held by the Higher Education Assistance 
Foundation, that are currently held in trust, shall be deposited in the 
general fund of the Treasury.
    Sec. 309. Of the funds provided in title III of this Act, under the 
heading ``Higher Education'', for title VII, part B of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, $250,000 shall be awarded to the Snelling Center 
for Government at the University of Vermont for a model school program, 
$750,000 shall be awarded to Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi, for 
operation of the Early Childhood Development Center, $1,000,000 shall 
be awarded to Southeast Missouri State University for equipment and 
curriculum development associated with the University's Polytechnic 
Institute, $800,000 shall be awarded to the Washington Virtual 
Classroom Consortium to develop, equip and implement an ecosystem 
curriculum, $500,000 shall be provided to the Puget Sound Center for 
Technology for faculty development activities for the use of technology 
in the classroom, $500,000 shall be awarded to the Center for the 
Advancement of Distance Education in Rural America, $3,000,000, to be 
available until expended, shall be awarded to the University Center of 
Lake County, Illinois and $1,000,000, to be available until expended, 
shall be awarded to the Oregon University System for activities 
authorized under title III, part A, section 311(c)(2), of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, as amended, $500,000 shall be awarded to 
Columbia College Illinois for a freshman retention program, $1,500,000 
shall be awarded to the University of Hawaii at Manoa for a 
Globalization Research Center, $2,000,000 shall be awarded to the 
University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff for technology infrastructure, 
$1,000,000 shall be awarded to the I Have a Dream Foundation, 
$1,000,000 shall be awarded to a demonstration program for activities 
authorized under part G of title VIII of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, as amended, $1,500,000 shall be awarded to the Daniel J. Evans 
School of Public Policy at the University of Washington, $200,000 shall 
be awarded to North Dakota State University for the Career Program for 
Dislocated Farmers and Ranchers, $350,000 shall be awarded to North 
Dakota State University for the Tech-based Industry Traineeship 
Program, $1,500,000 shall be awarded to Washington State University for 
the Thomas S. Foley Institute to support programs in congressional 
studies, public policy, voter education, and to ensure community access 
and outreach, $200,000 shall be awarded to Minot State University for 
the Rural Communications Disabilities Program, $300,000 shall be 
awarded to Bryant College for the Linking International Trade Education 
Program (LITE), $1,000,000 shall be awarded to Concord College, West 
Virginia for a technology center to further enhance the technical 
skills of West Virginia teachers and students, $200,000 shall be 
awarded to Peirce College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for education 
and training programs, $250,000 shall be awarded to the Philadelphia 
Zoo for educational programs, $800,000 shall be awarded to Spelman 
College in Georgia for educational operations, $1,000,000 shall be 
awarded to the Philadelphia University Education Center for technology 
education, $725,000 shall be awarded to Lock Haven University for 
technology innovations, $250,000 for Middle Georgia College for an 
advanced distributed learning center demonstration program, $1,000,000 
for the University of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio, Texas, to 
improve teacher capabilities in technology, $1,000,000 for Elmira 
College in New York for a technology enhancement initiative, $1,000,000 
shall be awarded to the Southeastern Pennsylvania Consortium on Higher 
Education for education programs, $400,000 shall be awarded to Lehigh 
University Iacocca Institute for educational training, $250,000 shall 
be awarded to Lafayette College for arts education, $1,000,000 shall be 
awarded to Lewis and Clark College for the Crime Victims Law Institute, 
$1,650,000 for Rust College in Mississippi for technology 
infrastructure, $500,000 for the University of Notre Dame for a teacher 
quality initiative, and $2,000,000 shall be awarded to the Western 
Governors University for a distance learning initiative.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES


                       Armed Forces Retirement Home

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home and 
the United States Naval Home, to be paid from funds available in the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $68,295,000, of which 
$12,696,000 shall remain available until expended for construction and 
renovation of the physical plants at the United States Soldiers' and 
Airmen's Home and the United States Naval Home: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, a single contract or 
related contracts for development and construction, to include 
construction of a long-term care facility at the United States Naval 
Home, may be employed which collectively include the full scope of the 
project: Provided further, That the solicitation and contract shall 
contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232-18 
and 252.232-7007, Limitation of Government Obligations.

             Corporation for National and Community Service


         Domestic Volunteer Service Programs, Operating Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service to carry out the provisions of the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973, as amended, $295,645,000: Provided, That none of 
the funds made available to the Corporation for National and Community 
Service in this Act for activities authorized by part E of title II of 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 shall be used to provide 
stipends to volunteers or volunteer leaders whose incomes exceed the 
income guidelines established for payment of stipends under the Foster 
Grandparent and Senior Companion programs: Provided further, That the 
foregoing proviso shall not apply to the Seniors for Schools program.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as 
authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall be 
available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 
2002, $350,000,000: Provided, That no funds made available to the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this Act shall be used to pay 
for receptions, parties, or similar forms of entertainment for 
Government officials or employees: Provided further, That none of the 
funds contained in this paragraph shall be available or used to aid or 
support any program or activity from which any person is excluded, or 
is denied benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, 
color, national origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That in 
addition to the amounts provided above, $10,000,000 shall be for 
digitalization, only if specifically authorized by subsequent 
legislation enacted by September 30, 2000.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor Management 
Relations Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 171-180, 182-183), including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-
Management Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a); and for expenses 
necessary for the Service to carry out the functions vested in it by 
the Civil Service Reform Act, Public Law 95-454 (5 U.S.C. ch. 71), 
$36,834,000, including $1,500,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management 
Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a): Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, 
for special training activities and other conflict resolution services 
and technical assistance, including those provided to foreign 
governments and international organizations, and for arbitration 
services shall be credited to and merged with this account, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That fees for 
arbitration services shall be available only for education, training, 
and professional development of the agency workforce: Provided further, 
That the Director of the Service is authorized to accept and use on 
behalf of the United States gifts of services and real, personal, or 
other property in the aid of any projects or functions within the 
Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), $6,159,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

         Office of Library Services: Grants and Administration

    For carrying out subtitle B of the Museum and Library Services Act, 
$163,250,000, of which $19,356,000 shall be awarded to national 
leadership projects, notwithstanding section 221(a)(1)(B): Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $700,000 shall be awarded to the Library 
and Archives of New Hampshire's Political Tradition at the New 
Hampshire State Library, $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Vermont 
Department of Libraries in Montpelier, Vermont, $750,000 shall be 
awarded to consolidation and preservation of archives and special 
collections at the University of Miami Library in Coral Gables, 
Florida, $1,900,000 shall be awarded to exhibits and library 
improvements for the Mississippi River Museum and Discovery Center in 
Dubuque, Iowa, $750,000 shall be awarded to the Alaska Native Heritage 
Center in Anchorage, Alaska, $750,000 shall be awarded to the Peabody-
Essex Museum in Salem, Massachusetts, $750,000 shall be awarded to the 
Bishop Museum in Hawaii, $200,000 shall be awarded to Oceanside Public 
Library in California for a local cultural heritage project, $1,000,000 
shall be awarded to the Urban Children's Museum Collaborative to 
develop and implement pilot programs dedicated to serving at-risk 
children and their families, $150,000 shall be awarded to the Troy 
State University Dothan in Alabama for archival of a special 
collection, $450,000 shall be awarded to Chadron State College in 
Nebraska for the Mari Sandoz Center, and $350,000 shall be awarded to 
the Alabama A&M University Alabama State Black Archives Research Center 
and Museum.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $7,015,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds.

        National Commission on Libraries and Information Science


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the National Commission on Libraries and 
Information Science, established by the Act of July 20, 1970 (Public 
Law 91-345, as amended), $1,300,000.

                     National Council on Disability


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
$2,400,000.

                     National Education Goals Panel

    For expenses necessary for the National Education Goals Panel, as 
authorized by title II, part A of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, 
$2,250,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, as amended (29 U.S.C. 141-167), and other laws, 
$199,500,000: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
available to organize or assist in organizing agricultural laborers or 
used in connection with investigations, hearings, directives, or orders 
concerning bargaining units composed of agricultural laborers as 
referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 5, 1935 (29 U.S.C. 152), 
and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, 
and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
203), and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 
95 percent of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes.

                        National Mediation Board


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151-188), including emergency boards 
appointed by the President, $9,100,000: Provided, That unobligated 
balances at the end of fiscal year 2000 not needed for emergency boards 
shall remain available for other statutory purposes through September 
30, 2001.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission (29 U.S.C. 661), $8,500,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board


                      dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $174,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2000 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds $174,000,000: 
Provided, That the total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 
approximately equal amounts on the first day of each month in the 
fiscal year.


           Federal Payments to the Railroad Retirement Accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.


                       Limitation on Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board for 
administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act, $91,000,000, to be derived in such amounts 
as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement accounts and 
from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment insurance 
administration fund.


              Limitation on the Office of Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, not more than $5,400,000, to 
be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad 
unemployment insurance account: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available in any other paragraph of this Act may be transferred to the 
Office; used to carry out any such transfer; used to provide any office 
space, equipment, office supplies, communications facilities or 
services, maintenance services, or administrative services for the 
Office; used to pay any salary, benefit, or award for any personnel of 
the Office; used to pay any other operating expense of the Office; or 
used to reimburse the Office for any service provided, or expense 
incurred, by the Office.

                     Social Security Administration


                 Payments to Social Security Trust Funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the 
Federal Disability Insurance trust funds, as provided under sections 
201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, $20,764,000.


                special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, $383,638,000, to remain available until expended.
    For making, after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977, for costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such 
amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 for the first quarter of fiscal year 
2001, $124,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                   Supplemental Security Income Program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$21,503,085,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury.
    From funds provided under the previous paragraph, not less than 
$100,000,000 shall be available for payment to the Social Security 
trust funds for administrative expenses for conducting continuing 
disability reviews.
    In addition, $200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001, for payment to the Social Security trust funds for administrative 
expenses for continuing disability reviews as authorized by section 103 
of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of Public Law 105-33. The term 
``continuing disability reviews'' means reviews and redeterminations as 
defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act, as 
amended.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2001, $9,890,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $6,093,871,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That not 
less than $1,800,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory Board: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances at the end of fiscal year 
2000 not needed for fiscal year 2000 shall remain available until 
expended to invest in the Social Security Administration computing 
network, including related equipment and non-payroll administrative 
expenses associated solely with this network: Provided further, That 
reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for expenditures 
for official time for employees of the Social Security Administration 
pursuant to section 7131 of title 5, United States Code, and for 
facilities or support services for labor organizations pursuant to 
policies, regulations, or procedures referred to in section 7135(b) of 
such title shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, with 
interest, from amounts in the general fund not otherwise appropriated, 
as soon as possible after such expenditures are made.
    From funds provided under the previous paragraph, notwithstanding 
the provision under this heading in Public Law 105-277 regarding 
unobligated balances at the end of fiscal year 1999 not needed for such 
fiscal year, an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 from such unobligated 
balances shall, in addition to funding already available under this 
heading for fiscal year 2000, be available for necessary expenses.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, not less than 
$200,000,000 shall be available for conducting continuing disability 
reviews.
    In addition to funding already available under this heading, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $405,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001, for continuing disability reviews 
as authorized by section 103 of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of 
Public Law 105-33. The term ``continuing disability reviews'' means 
reviews and redeterminations as defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of 
the Social Security Act, as amended.
    In addition, $80,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such section 1616(d) or 212(b)(3) in 
fiscal year 2000 exceed $80,000,000, the amounts shall be available in 
fiscal year 2001 only to the extent provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    From amounts previously made available under this heading for a 
state-of-the-art computing network, not to exceed $100,000,000 shall be 
available for necessary expenses under this heading, subject to the 
same terms and conditions.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, the Commissioner of 
Social Security may direct up to $3,000,000, in addition to funds 
previously appropriated for this purpose, to continue Federal-State 
partnerships which will evaluate means to promote Medicare buy-in 
programs targeted to elderly and disabled individuals under titles 
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act.


                       Office of Inspector General

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $15,000,000, together with not to exceed $51,000,000, to be 
transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the 
Social Security Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available: Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate.

                    United States Institute of Peace


                            Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace as 
authorized in the United States Institute of Peace Act, $13,000,000.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act: Provided, That such transferred balances are used 
for the same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they 
were originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for 
the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State 
legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or 
any State legislature.
    Sec. 504. The Secretaries of Labor and Education are authorized to 
make available not to exceed $20,000 and $15,000, respectively, from 
funds available for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, 
respectively, for official reception and representation expenses; the 
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is 
authorized to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $2,500 from the funds available for ``Salaries 
and expenses, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service''; and the 
Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from funds available for ``Salaries and expenses, 
National Mediation Board''.
    Sec. 505. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be used to carry out any program of 
distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection 
of any illegal drug.
    Sec. 506. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 507. When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state: (1) the percentage of the total costs of 
the program or project which will be financed with Federal money; (2) 
the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or program; and (3) 
percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or 
program that will be financed by non-governmental sources.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds appropriated under this Act, and 
none of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated 
under this Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated under this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 509. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
        (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest; 
    or
        (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical disorder, 
    physical injury, or physical illness, including a life-endangering 
    physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself, 
    that would, as certified by a physician, place the woman in danger 
    of death unless an abortion is performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    Sec. 510. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
        (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
    purposes; or
        (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are destroyed, 
    discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury or death 
    greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in utero under 45 
    CFR 46.208(a)(2) and section 498(b) of the Public Health Service 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 511. (a) Limitation on Use of Funds for Promotion of 
Legalization of Controlled Substances.--None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used for any activity that promotes the 
legalization of any drug or other substance included in schedule I of 
the schedules of controlled substances established by section 202 of 
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812).
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply 
when there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage 
to the use of such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored 
clinical trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
        (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
    States and is subject to the requirement in section 4212(d) of 
    title 38, United States Code, regarding submission of an annual 
    report to the Secretary of Labor concerning employment of certain 
    veterans; and
        (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by that 
    section for the most recent year for which such requirement was 
    applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 513. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, 
unobligated balances remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2000 
from appropriations made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 2000 in this Act, shall remain available through December 31, 
2000, for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations shall be notified at 
least 15 days prior to the obligation of such funds.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(b)) providing for, or providing 
for the assignment of, a unique health identifier for an individual 
(except in an individual's capacity as an employer or a health care 
provider), until legislation is enacted specifically approving the 
standard.
    Sec. 515. Section 520(c)(2)(D) of the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1997, as amended, is further amended by striking ``December 31, 
1997'' and inserting ``December 31, 1999''.
    Sec. 516. The United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act (22 
U.S.C. 290n et seq.) is amended--
        (1) by striking section 2 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 2. APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS OF BORDER HEALTH COMMISSION.

    ``Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
section, the President shall appoint the United States members of the 
United States-Mexico Border Health Commission, and shall attempt to 
conclude an agreement with Mexico providing for the establishment of 
such Commission.''; and
        (2) in section 3--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking the semicolon and 
        inserting ``; and'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking paragraph (3).
    Sec. 517. The applicable time limitations with respect to the 
giving of notice of injury and the filing of a claim for compensation 
for disability or death by an individual under the Federal Employees' 
Compensation Act, as amended, for injuries sustained as a result of the 
person's exposure to a nitrogen or sulfur mustard agent in the 
performance of official duties as an employee at the Department of the 
Army's Edgewood Arsenal before March 20, 1944, shall not begin to run 
until the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 518. Section 169(d)(2)(B) of Public Law 105-220, the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998, is amended by striking ``or Alaska Native 
villages or Native groups (as such terms are defined in section 3 of 
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602)).'' and 
inserting ``or Alaska Natives.''.
    Sec. 519. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in 
this Act for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2000, $121,000,000, 
to be allocated by the Office of Management and Budget, are permanently 
canceled: Provided, That, within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate showing the allocation of the 
$121,000,000.

 TITLE VI--EARLY DETECTION, DIAGNOSIS, AND INTERVENTIONS FOR NEWBORNS 
                     AND INFANTS WITH HEARING LOSS

    Sec. 601. (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section only, 
the following terms in this section are defined as follows:
        (1) Hearing screening.--Newborn and infant hearing screening 
    consists of objective physiologic procedures to detect possible 
    hearing loss and to identify newborns and infants who, after 
    rescreening, require further audiologic and medical evaluations.
        (2) Audiologic evaluation.--Audiologic evaluation consists of 
    procedures to assess the status of the auditory system; to 
    establish the site of the auditory disorder; the type and degree of 
    hearing loss, and the potential effects of hearing loss on 
    communication; and to identify appropriate treatment and referral 
    options. Referral options should include linkage to State IDEA part 
    C coordinating agencies or other appropriate agencies, medical 
    evaluation, hearing aid/sensory aid assessment, audiologic 
    rehabilitation treatment, national and local consumer, self-help, 
    parent, and education organizations, and other family-centered 
    services.
        (3) Medical evaluation.--Medical evaluation by a physician 
    consists of key components including history, examination, and 
    medical decision making focused on symptomatic and related body 
    systems for the purpose of diagnosing the etiology of hearing loss 
    and related physical conditions, and for identifying appropriate 
    treatment and referral options.
        (4) Medical intervention.--Medical intervention is the process 
    by which a physician provides medical diagnosis and direction for 
    medical and/or surgical treatment options of hearing loss and/or 
    related medical disorder associated with hearing loss.
        (5) Audiologic rehabilitation.--Audiologic rehabilitation 
    (intervention) consists of procedures, techniques, and technologies 
    to facilitate the receptive and expressive communication abilities 
    of a child with hearing loss.
        (6) Early intervention.--Early intervention (e.g., nonmedical) 
    means providing appropriate services for the child with hearing 
    loss and ensuring that families of the child are provided 
    comprehensive, consumer-oriented information about the full range 
    of family support, training, information services, communication 
    options and are given the opportunity to consider the full range of 
    educational and program placements and options for their child.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to clarify the 
authority within the Public Health Service Act to authorize statewide 
newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation and intervention 
programs and systems, technical assistance, a national applied research 
program, and interagency and private sector collaboration for policy 
development, in order to assist the States in making progress toward 
the following goals:
        (1) All babies born in hospitals in the United States and its 
    territories should have a hearing screening before leaving the 
    birthing facility. Babies born in other countries and residing in 
    the United States via immigration or adoption should have a hearing 
    screening as early as possible.
        (2) All babies who are not born in hospitals in the United 
    States and its territories should have a hearing screening within 
    the first 3 months of life.
        (3) Appropriate audiologic and medical evaluations should be 
    conducted by 3 months for all newborns and infants suspected of 
    having hearing loss to allow appropriate referral and provisions 
    for audiologic rehabilitation, medical and early intervention 
    before the age of 6 months.
        (4) All newborn and infant hearing screening programs and 
    systems should include a component for audiologic rehabilitation, 
    medical and early intervention options that ensures linkage to any 
    new and existing statewide systems of intervention and 
    rehabilitative services for newborns and infants with hearing loss.
        (5) Public policy in regard to newborn and infant hearing 
    screening and intervention should be based on applied research and 
    the recognition that newborns, infants, toddlers, and children who 
    are deaf or hard-of-hearing have unique language, learning, and 
    communication needs, and should be the result of consultation with 
    pertinent public and private sectors.
    (c) Statewide Newborn and Infant Hearing Screening, Evaluation and 
Intervention Programs and Systems.--Under the existing authority of the 
Public Health Service Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(in this section referred to as the ``Secretary''), acting through the 
Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, 
shall make awards of grants or cooperative agreements to develop 
statewide newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation and 
intervention programs and systems for the following purposes:
        (1) To develop and monitor the efficacy of statewide newborn 
    and infant hearing screening, evaluation and intervention programs 
    and systems. Early intervention includes referral to schools and 
    agencies, including community, consumer, and parent-based agencies 
    and organizations and other programs mandated by part C of the 
    Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, which offer programs 
    specifically designed to meet the unique language and communication 
    needs of deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, infants, toddlers, and 
    children.
        (2) To collect data on statewide newborn and infant hearing 
    screening, evaluation and intervention programs and systems that 
    can be used for applied research, program evaluation and policy 
    development.
    (d) Technical Assistance, Data Management, and Applied Research.--
        (1) Centers for disease control and prevention.--Under the 
    existing authority of the Public Health Service Act, the Secretary, 
    acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
    Prevention, shall make awards of grants or cooperative agreements 
    to provide technical assistance to State agencies to complement an 
    intramural program and to conduct applied research related to 
    newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation and intervention 
    programs and systems. The program shall develop standardized 
    procedures for data management and program effectiveness and costs, 
    such as--
            (A) to ensure quality monitoring of newborn and infant 
        hearing loss screening, evaluation, and intervention programs 
        and systems;
            (B) to provide technical assistance on data collection and 
        management;
            (C) to study the costs and effectiveness of newborn and 
        infant hearing screening, evaluation and intervention programs 
        and systems conducted by State-based programs in order to 
        answer issues of importance to State and national policymakers;
            (D) to identify the causes and risk factors for congenital 
        hearing loss;
            (E) to study the effectiveness of newborn and infant 
        hearing screening, audiologic and medical evaluations and 
        intervention programs and systems by assessing the health, 
        intellectual and social developmental, cognitive, and language 
        status of these children at school age; and
            (F) to promote the sharing of data regarding early hearing 
        loss with State-based birth defects and developmental 
        disabilities monitoring programs for the purpose of identifying 
        previously unknown causes of hearing loss.
        (2) National institutes of health.--Under the existing 
    authority of the Public Health Service Act, the Director of the 
    National Institutes of Health, acting through the Director of the 
    National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, 
    shall for purposes of this section, continue a program of research 
    and development on the efficacy of new screening techniques and 
    technology, including clinical studies of screening methods, 
    studies on efficacy of intervention, and related research.
    (e) Coordination and Collaboration.--
        (1) In general.--Under the existing authority of the Public 
    Health Service Act, in carrying out programs under this section, 
    the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services 
    Administration, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
    Prevention, and the Director of the National Institutes of Health 
    shall collaborate and consult with other Federal agencies; State 
    and local agencies, including those responsible for early 
    intervention services pursuant to title XIX of the Social Security 
    Act (Medicaid Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment 
    Program); title XXI of the Social Security Act (State Children's 
    Health Insurance Program); title V of the Social Security Act 
    (Maternal and Child Health Block Grant Program); and part C of the 
    Individuals with Disabilities Education Act; consumer groups of and 
    that serve individuals who are deaf and hard-of-hearing and their 
    families; appropriate national medical and other health and 
    education specialty organizations; persons who are deaf and hard-
    of-hearing and their families; other qualified professional 
    personnel who are proficient in deaf or hard-of-hearing children's 
    language and who possess the specialized knowledge, skills, and 
    attributes needed to serve deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
    infants, toddlers, children, and their families; third-party payers 
    and managed care organizations; and related commercial industries.
        (2) Policy development.--Under the existing authority of the 
    Public Health Service Act, the Administrator of the Health 
    Resources and Services Administration, the Director of the Centers 
    for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Director of the 
    National Institutes of Health shall coordinate and collaborate on 
    recommendations for policy development at the Federal and State 
    levels and with the private sector, including consumer, medical and 
    other health and education professional-based organizations, with 
    respect to newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation and 
    intervention programs and systems.
        (3) State early detection, diagnosis, and intervention programs 
    and systems; data collection.--Under the existing authority of the 
    Public Health Service Act, the Administrator of the Health 
    Resources and Services Administration and the Director of the 
    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall coordinate and 
    collaborate in assisting States to establish newborn and infant 
    hearing screening, evaluation and intervention programs and systems 
    under subsection (c) and to develop a data collection system under 
    subsection (d).
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preempt any State law.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        (1) Statewide newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation 
    and intervention programs and systems.--For the purpose of carrying 
    out subsection (c) under the existing authority of the Public 
    Health Service Act, there are authorized to the Health Resources 
    and Services Administration appropriations in the amount of 
    $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
    and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2002.
        (2) Technical assistance, data management, and applied 
    research; centers for disease control and prevention.--For the 
    purpose of carrying out subsection (d)(1) under the existing 
    authority of the Public Health Service Act, there are authorized to 
    the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, appropriations in 
    the amount of $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $7,000,000 for 
    fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
    2002.
        (3) Technical assistance, data management, and applied 
    research; national institute on deafness and other communication 
    disorders.--For the purpose of carrying out subsection (d)(2) under 
    the existing authority of the Public Health Service Act, there are 
    authorized to the National Institute on Deafness and Other 
    Communication Disorders appropriations for such sums as may be 
    necessary for each of the fiscal years 2000 through 2002.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000''.

                               DIVISION C

                        RESCISSIONS AND OFFSETS

    Sec. 1001. (a) Across-the-Board Rescissions.--There is hereby 
rescinded an amount equal to 0.97 percent of--
        (1) the budget authority provided (or obligation limitation 
    established) for fiscal year 2000 for any discretionary account in 
    any fiscal year 2000 appropriation law;
        (2) the budget authority provided (or obligation limitation 
    established) in any advance appropriation for fiscal year 2000 for 
    any discretionary account in any prior fiscal year appropriation 
    law; and
        (3) the budget authority provided in any fiscal year 2000 
    appropriation law that would have been estimated as increasing 
    direct spending for fiscal year 2000 under section 252 of the 
    Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 were it 
    included in a law other than an appropriation law and not 
    designated as an emergency requirement.
    (b) Proportionate Application.--Any rescission made by subsection 
(a) shall be applied proportionately--
        (1) to each discretionary account and each item of budget 
    authority described in subsection (a)(3); and
        (2) within each such account and item, to each program, 
    project, and activity (with programs, projects, and activities as 
    delineated in the appropriation Act or accompanying report for the 
    relevant fiscal year covering such account or item, or for accounts 
    and items not included in appropriation Acts, as delineated in the 
    most recently submitted President's budget).
    (c) Subsequent Appropriation Laws.--In the case of any fiscal year 
2000 appropriation law enacted after the enactment of this section, any 
rescission required by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately 
after the enactment of such law.
    (d) OMB Reports.--Within 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
this section (or, if later, 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
any fiscal year 2000 appropriation law), the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report specifying the 
amount of each rescission made pursuant to this section.
    (e) Same Percentage Reduction Applicable to Pay for Members of 
Congress.--
        (1) In general.--In determining rates of pay for service 
    performed in any fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1999, 
    the rate of pay for a Member of Congress shall be determined as if 
    the fiscal year 2000 pay adjustment (taking effect in January 2000) 
    had resulted in a rate equal to--
            (A) the rate of pay that would otherwise have taken effect 
        for the position involved beginning in January 2000 (if this 
        section had not been enacted), reduced by
            (B) the same percentage as specified in subsection (a).
        (2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
            (A) the term ``Member of Congress'' refers to any position 
        under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 601(a)(1) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31(1)(A)-(C)); 
        and
            (B) the term ``fiscal year 2000 pay adjustment'' means the 
        adjustment in rates of pay scheduled to take effect in fiscal 
        year 2000 under section 601(a)(2) of the Legislative 
        Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31(2)).
    Sec. 1002. (a) Section 453(j) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
653(j)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(6) Information comparisons and disclosure for enforcement of 
    obligations on higher education act loans and grants.--
            ``(A) Furnishing of information by the secretary of 
        education.--The Secretary of Education shall furnish to the 
        Secretary, on a quarterly basis or at such less frequent 
        intervals as may be determined by the Secretary of Education, 
        information in the custody of the Secretary of Education for 
        comparison with information in the National Directory of New 
        Hires, in order to obtain the information in such directory 
        with respect to individuals who--
                ``(i) are borrowers of loans made under title IV of the 
            Higher Education Act of 1965 that are in default; or
                ``(ii) owe an obligation to refund an overpayment of a 
            grant awarded under such title.
            ``(B) Requirement to seek minimum information necessary.--
        The Secretary of Education shall seek information pursuant to 
        this section only to the extent essential to improving 
        collection of the debt described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Duties of the secretary.--
                ``(i) Information comparison; disclosure to the 
            secretary of education.--The Secretary, in cooperation with 
            the Secretary of Education, shall compare information in 
            the National Directory of New Hires with information in the 
            custody of the Secretary of Education, and disclose 
            information in that Directory to the Secretary of 
            Education, in accordance with this paragraph, for the 
            purposes specified in this paragraph.
                ``(ii) Condition on disclosure.--The Secretary shall 
            make disclosures in accordance with clause (i) only to the 
            extent that the Secretary determines that such disclosures 
            do not interfere with the effective operation of the 
            program under this part. Support collection under section 
            466(b) shall be given priority over collection of any 
            defaulted student loan or grant overpayment against the 
            same income.
            ``(D) Use of information by the secretary of 
        education.--The Secretary of Education may use information 
        resulting from a data match pursuant to this paragraph only--
                ``(i) for the purpose of collection of the debt 
            described in subparagraph (A) owed by an individual whose 
            annualized wage level (determined by taking into 
            consideration information from the National Directory of 
            New Hires) exceeds $16,000; and
                ``(ii) after removal of personal identifiers, to 
            conduct analyses of student loan defaults.
            ``(E) Disclosure of information by the secretary of 
        education.--
                ``(i) Disclosures permitted.--The Secretary of 
            Education may disclose information resulting from a data 
            match pursuant to this paragraph only to--

                    ``(I) a guaranty agency holding a loan made under 
                part B of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
                on which the individual is obligated;
                    ``(II) a contractor or agent of the guaranty agency 
                described in subclause (I);
                    ``(III) a contractor or agent of the Secretary; and
                    ``(IV) the Attorney General.

                ``(ii) Purpose of disclosure.--The Secretary of 
            Education may make a disclosure under clause (i) only for 
            the purpose of collection of the debts owed on defaulted 
            student loans, or overpayments of grants, made under title 
            IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
                ``(iii) Restriction on redisclosure.--An entity to 
            which information is disclosed under clause (i) may use or 
            disclose such information only as needed for the purpose of 
            collecting on defaulted student loans, or overpayments of 
            grants, made under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
            1965.
            ``(F) Reimbursement of hhs costs.--The Secretary of 
        Education shall reimburse the Secretary, in accordance with 
        subsection (k)(3), for the additional costs incurred by the 
        Secretary in furnishing the information requested under this 
        subparagraph.''.
    (b) Penalties for Misuse of Information.--Section 402(a) of the 
Child Support Performance and Incentive Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 669) is 
amended in the matter added by paragraph (2) by inserting ``or any 
other person'' after ``officer or employee of the United States''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
become effective October 1, 1999.
    Sec. 1003. Section 110 of title 23, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(e) After making any calculation necessary to implement 
        this section for fiscal year 2001, the amount available under 
        paragraph (a)(1) shall be increased by $328,655,000. The 
        amounts added under this subsection shall not apply to any 
        calculation in any other fiscal year.
            ``(f) For fiscal year 2001, prior to making any 
        distribution under this section, $56,231,000 of the allocation 
        under paragraph (a)(1) shall be available only for each program 
        authorized under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, 
        and title III of Public Law 105-178, in proportion to each such 
        program's share of the total authorizations in section 5338 
        (other than 5338(h)) of such title and sections 3037 and 3038 
        of such Public Law, under the terms and conditions of chapter 
        53 of such title.
            ``(g) For fiscal year 2001, prior to making any 
        distribution under this section, $1,019,000 of the allocation 
        under paragraph (a)(1) shall be available only for motor 
        carrier safety programs under sections 31104 and 31107 of title 
        49, United States Code; $698,000 for NHTSA operations and 
        research under section 403 of title 23, United States Code; and 
        $2,008,000 for NHTSA highway traffic safety grants under 
        chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code.''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.