[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1143 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 126
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1143

                          [Report No. 106-55]

Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 27, 1999

    Mr. Shelby, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                   Immediate Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Secretary, 
$1,900,000.

                Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Deputy 
Secretary, $600,000.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$9,000,000.

              Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy, $2,900,000.

   Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International 
                                Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $7,700,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation up to $1,250,000 in funds received in user fees.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Budget and Programs, $6,870,000, including not to exceed $45,000 for 
allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Governmental Affairs, $2,000,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration, $18,600,000.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Public Affairs, $1,800,000.

                         Executive Secretariat

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Secretariat, $1,110,000.

                       Board of Contract Appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Board of Contract Appeals, $560,000.

         Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization, $1,222,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $5,100,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $7,200,000.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $3,300,000.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$169,953,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That the preceding limitation 
shall not apply to activities associated with departmental Year 2000 
conversion activities: Provided further, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above limitation on 
operating expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: Provided 
further, That no funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any 
program, budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act 
unless notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved 
by such Committees.

                   Minority Business Resource Center

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
not to exceed $13,775,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the direct loan program, $400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center 
outreach activities, $2,900,000, of which $2,635,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 
U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used for business opportunities related 
to any mode of transportation.

                              COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare; $2,772,000,000, of which $534,000,000 shall be 
available for defense-related activities; and of which $25,000,000 
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be 
available for pay for administrative expenses in connection with 
shipping commissioners in the United States: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this Act shall be available for expenses 
incurred for yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the 
extent fees are collected from yacht owners and credited to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the Commandant shall reduce both 
military and civilian employment levels for the purpose of complying 
with Executive Order No. 12839: Provided further, That up to $615,000 
in user fees collected pursuant to section 1111 of Public Law 104-324 
shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections in 
fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer 
funds to this account, from Federal Aviation Administration 
``Operations'', not to exceed $60,000,000 in total for the fiscal year, 
fifteen days after written notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, for the purpose of providing additional 
funds for drug interdiction activities and/or the Office of 
Intelligence and Security activities: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for the Coast Guard to plan, 
finalize, or implement any regulation that would promulgate new 
maritime user fees not specifically authorized by law after the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the United States Coast 
Guard will reimburse the Department of Transportation Inspector General 
$5,000,000 for costs associated with audits and investigations of all 
Coast Guard-related issues and systems.

              Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $370,426,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; 
of which $123,560,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate 
or improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004; $33,210,000 shall be available to 
acquire new aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002; $52,726,000 shall be available for 
other equipment, to remain available until September 30, 2002; 
$63,800,000 shall be available for shore facilities and aids to 
navigation facilities, to remain available until September 30, 2002; 
$52,930,000 shall be available for personnel compensation and benefits 
and related costs, to remain available until September 30, 2001; and 
$44,200,000 shall be deposited in the Deepwater Replacement Project 
Revolving Fund to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
received from the sale of HU-25 aircraft shall be credited to this 
appropriation for the purpose of acquiring new aircraft and increasing 
aviation capacity: Provided further, That the Commandant of the Coast 
Guard is authorized to and may dispose of by sale at fair market value 
all rights, title, and interests of any United States entity on behalf 
of the Coast Guard in and to the land of, and improvements to, South 
Haven, Michigan; ESMT Manasquan, New Jersey; Petaluma, California; ESMT 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire; Station Clair Flats, Michigan; and, Aids to 
navigation team Huron, Ohio: Provided further, That there is 
established in the Treasury of the United States a special account to 
be known as the Deepwater Replacement Project Revolving Fund and 
proceeds from the sale of said specified properties and improvements 
shall be deposited in that account, from which the proceeds shall be 
available until expended for the purposes of replacing or modernizing 
Coast Guard ships, aircraft, and other capital assets necessary to 
conduct its deepwater statutory responsibilities: Provided further, 
That, if balances in the Deepwater Replacement Project Revolving Fund 
permit, the Commandant of the Coast Guard is authorized to obligate up 
to $60,000,000.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $12,450,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $14,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                              Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $730,327,000.

                            Reserve Training

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as 
authorized by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and 
supplies, equipment, and services; $72,000,000: Provided, That no more 
than $20,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Coast Guard to assess direct charges on the 
Coast Guard Reserves for items or activities which were not so charged 
during fiscal year 1997.

              Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $17,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to and used for the purposes 
of this appropriation funds received from State and local governments, 
other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries, for 
expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                    FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses 
of the Federal Aviation Administration, not otherwise provided for, 
including operations and research activities related to commercial 
space transportation, administrative expenses for research and 
development, establishment of air navigation facilities, the operation 
(including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, subsidizing the cost 
of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, and carrying out 
the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 49, United 
States Code, or other provisions of law authorizing the obligation of 
funds for similar programs of airport and airway development or 
improvement, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 
104-264, $5,857,450,000 from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
Federal Aviation Administration to plan, finalize, or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not 
specifically authorized by law after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer funds to this 
account, from Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'', not to exceed 
$60,000,000 in total for the fiscal year, fifteen days after written 
notification to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
solely for the purpose of providing additional funds for air traffic 
control operations and maintenance to enhance aviation safety and 
security, and/or the Office of Intelligence and Security activities: 
Provided further, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, foreign 
authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation 
facilities, and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for 
tests related thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration 
forms: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the contract tower cost-sharing 
program: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a grant 
agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to assist in 
the development of aviation safety standards: Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new applicants for 
the second career training program: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for paying premium pay under 5 
U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless 
such employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to 
such premium pay: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act 
may be obligated or expended to operate a manned auxiliary flight 
service station in the contiguous United States: Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act may be used for the Federal Aviation 
Administration to enter into a multiyear lease greater than five years 
in length or greater than $100,000,000 in value unless such lease is 
specifically authorized by the Congress and appropriations have been 
provided to fully cover the Federal Government's contingent 
liabilities: Provided further, That the Federal Aviation Administration 
will reimburse the Department of Transportation Inspector General 
$19,000,000 for costs associated with audits and investigations of all 
aviation-related issues and systems: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the FAA Administrator may 
contract out the entire function of Oceanic flight services.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, establishment, and 
improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air navigation and 
experimental facilities and equipment as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,045,652,000, of which $1,721,086,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002, and of which $274,566,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                             (rescissions)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 104-205, 
$17,500,000 are rescinded: Provided, That of the amounts provided under 
this heading in Public Law 105-66, $282,000,000 are rescinded.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, for research, engineering, and development, 
as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States 
Code, including construction of experimental facilities and acquisition 
of necessary sites by lease or grant, $150,000,000, to be derived from 
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
September 30, 2002: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred 
for research, engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and for noise compatibility planning 
and programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and 
subchapter I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under 
other law authorizing such obligations, and for administration of such 
programs, $1,750,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$2,000,000,000 in fiscal year 2000, notwithstanding section 47117(h) of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That discretionary 
grant funds available for noise planning and mitigation shall not 
exceed $60,000,000: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not more than $47,891,000 of the funds limited under 
this heading shall be obligated for administration.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    The obligation limitation under this heading in Public Law 105-277 
is hereby reduced by $290,000,000.

                   Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

                Aircraft Purchase Loan Guarantee Program

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for activities 
under this heading during fiscal year 2000.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                 Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration not to exceed $370,000,000 shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided 
further, That $55,418,000 shall be available to carry out the functions 
and operations of the office of motor carriers: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding Public Law 105-178 or any other provision of law, 
$14,500,000 of the funds available under section 104(a) of title 23, 
United States Code, shall be made available and transferred to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration operations and research 
to carry out the provisions of chapter 301 of title 49, United States 
Code, part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, and 
section 405(b) of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That 
of the $14,500,000 made available for traffic and highway safety 
programs, $8,300,000 shall be made available to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code and 
$6,200,000 shall be made available to carry out the provisions of part 
C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, 
That $7,500,000, of the funds available under section 104(a) of title 
23, United States Code, shall be made available and transferred to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Highway Traffic Safety 
Grants, for ``Child Passenger Protection Education Grants'' under 
section 405(b) of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That, 
the Federal Highway Administration will reimburse the Department of 
Transportation Inspector General $9,000,000 from funds available within 
this limitation on obligations for costs associated with audits and 
investigations of all highway-related issues and systems.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for which are 
in excess of $27,701,350,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway 
safety construction programs for fiscal year 2000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the $27,701,350,000 
obligation limitation on Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction programs, not more than $391,450,000 shall be available 
for the implementation or execution of programs for transportation 
research (Sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 507, and 508 of title 23, United 
States Code, as amended; section 5505 of title 49, United States Code, 
as amended; and sections 5112 and 5204-5209 of Public Law 105-178) for 
fiscal year 2000; not more than $20,000,000 shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs for the Magnetic Levitation 
Transportation Technology Deployment Program (Section 1218 of Public 
Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2000, of which not to exceed $500,000 
shall be available to the Federal Railroad Administration for 
administrative expenses and technical assistance in connection with 
such program; not more than $31,000,000 shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs for the Bureau of 
Transportation Statistics (Section 111 of title 49, United States Code) 
for fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, of the funds made available in fiscal year 2000 to 
carry out section 144(g)(1) of title 23, United States Code, 
$10,000,000 shall be made available to carry out section 1224 of Public 
Law 105-178: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, within the $27,701,350,000 obligation limitation, of the 
amounts made available as contract authority under section 1221(e) of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-
178), $6,000,000 shall be made available to carry out section 5113 of 
that Act and $5,000,000 shall be made available to carry out the 
Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System program: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
$211,200,000 obligation limitation on Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, not less than the following sums shall be made available for 
Intelligent Transportation system projects in the following specified 
areas:

                                                              Committee
                ITS deployment projects                  recommendation
Southeast Michigan...................................        $4,000,000
Salt Lake City, UT...................................         6,500,000
Branson, MO..........................................         1,500,000
St.Louis, MO.........................................         2,000,000
Shreveport, LA.......................................         2,000,000
State of Montana.....................................         3,500,000
State of Colorado....................................         4,000,000
Arapahoe County, CO..................................         2,000,000
Grand Forks, ND......................................           500,000
State of Idaho.......................................         2,000,000
Columbus, OH.........................................         2,000,000
Inglewood, CA........................................         2,000,000
Fargo, ND............................................         2,000,000
Albuquerque/State of New Mexico interstate projects..         2,000,000
Dothan/Port Saint Joe................................         2,000,000
Santa Teresa, NM.....................................         1,500,000
State of Illinois....................................         4,800,000
Charlotte, NC........................................         2,500,000
Nashville, TN........................................         2,000,000
Tacoma Puyallup, WA..................................           500,000
Spokane, WA..........................................         1,000,000
Puget Sound, WA......................................         2,200,000
State of Washington..................................         4,000,000
State of Texas.......................................         6,000,000
Corpus Christi, TX...................................         2,000,000
State of Nebraska....................................         1,500,000
State of Wisconsin rural systems.....................         1,000,000
State of Wisconsin...................................         2,400,000
State of Alaska......................................         3,700,000
Cargo Mate, Northern NJ..............................         2,000,000
Statewide Transcom/Transmit upgrades, NJ.............         6,000,000
State of Vermont rural systems.......................         2,000,000
State of Maryland....................................         4,500,000
Washoe County, NV....................................         2,000,000
State of Delaware....................................         2,000,000
Reno/Tahoe, CA/NV....................................         1,000,000
Towamencin, PA.......................................         1,100,000
State of Alabama.....................................         1,300,000
Huntsville, AL.......................................         3,000,000
Silicon Valley, CA...................................         2,000,000
Greater Yellowstone, MT..............................         2,000,000
Pennslyvania Turnpike, PA............................         7,000,000
Portland, OR.........................................         1,500,000
Delaware River, PA...................................         1,500,000
Kansas City, MO......................................        1,000,000:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding Public Law 105-178 as amended, 
or any other provision of law, funds authorized under section 110 of 
title 23, United States Code, for fiscal year 2000 shall be apportioned 
based on each State's percentage share of funding provided for under 
section 105 of title 23, United States Code, for fiscal year 2000. Of 
these funds to be apportioned under section 110 for fiscal year 2000, 
the Secretary shall ensure that such funds are apportioned for the 
Interstate Maintenance program, the National Highway System program, 
the bridge program, the surface transportation program, and the 
congestion mitigation and air quality improvement program in the same 
ratio that each State is apportioned funds for such programs in fiscal 
year 2000 but for this section.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for carrying out the 
provisions of title 23, U.S.C., that are attributable to Federal-aid 
highways, including the National Scenic and Recreational Highway as 
authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not otherwise provided, including 
reimbursement for sums expended pursuant to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 
308, $26,300,000,000 or so much thereof as may be available in and 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                 National Motor Carrier Safety Program

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 31102, $50,000,000 to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no more than $155,000,000 of budget authority 
shall be available for these purposes: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $105,000,000 is for payment 
of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102 to be derived 
from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                        Operations and Research

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $72,900,000 for traffic and 
highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, of 
which $48,843,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to plan, finalize, or implement any rulemaking to 
add to section 575.104 of title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations 
any requirement pertaining to a grading standard that is different from 
the three grading standards (treadwear, traction, and temperature 
resistance) already in effect: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this Act may be obligated or expended to implement 
section 656(b) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
Responsibility Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 405 note).

                        Operations and Research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding Public Law 105-178 or any other provision of law, 
for payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2000, are in 
excess of $72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

                        National Driver Register

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000 to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                     Highway Traffic Safety Grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, $206,800,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2000, are in 
excess of $206,800,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 of which $152,800,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402, $10,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant 
Protection Incentive Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, $36,000,000 shall be 
for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 
410, $8,000,000 shall be for the ``State Highway Safety Data Grants'' 
under 23 U.S.C. 411: Provided further, That none of these funds shall 
be used for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for 
office furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings 
or structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $7,500,000 of the 
funds made available for section 402, not to exceed $500,000 of the 
funds made available for section 405, not to exceed $1,750,000 of the 
funds made available for section 410, and not to exceed $223,000 of the 
funds made available for section 411 shall be available to NHTSA for 
administering highway safety grants under Chapter 4 of title 23, 
U.S.C.: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
available for section 410 ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures 
Grants'' shall be available for technical assistance to the States.

                    FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                         Safety and Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $91,789,000, of which $6,700,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That, as part of the Washington 
Union Station transaction in which the Secretary assumed the first deed 
of trust on the property and, where the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation or any successor is obligated to make payments on such deed 
of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including payments on and after 
September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to receive such 
payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation, 
credit them to the appropriation charged for the first deed of trust, 
and make payments on the first deed of trust with those funds: Provided 
further, That such additional sums as may be necessary for payment on 
the first deed of trust may be advanced by the Administrator from 
unobligated balances available to the Federal Railroad Administration, 
to be reimbursed from payments received from the Union Station 
Redevelopment Corporation: Provided further, That the Federal Railroad 
Administration will reimburse the Department of Transportation 
Inspector General $1,000,000 for costs associated with audits and 
investigations of all rail-related issues and systems: Provided 
further, That the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration 
is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office under this 
heading to any other office funded under this heading: Provided 
further, That no appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more 
than 10 percent by such transfers unless it is approved by both the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                   Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$22,364,000, to remain available until expended.

            Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to 
section 512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 
1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times 
as may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the 
guarantee of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 
through 513 of such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such 
guaranteed obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to 
section 502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the credit 
risk premium during fiscal year 2000.

                    Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 United States Code sections 26101 and 
26102, $20,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $14,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations, to remain available 
until expended.

                     Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$10,000,000 to be matched by the State of Rhode Island or its designee 
on a dollar-for-dollar basis and to remain available until expended.

     Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation as authorized by U.S.C. 24104(a), 
$571,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                        Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $12,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no more than $60,000,000 of budget authority shall be available 
for these purposes: Provided further, That the Federal Transit 
Administration will reimburse the Department of Transportation 
Inspector General $9,000,000 for costs associated with audits and 
investigations of all transit-related issues and systems.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $619,600,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,098,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                     Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $21,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $107,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)); $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315); 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)); $49,632,000 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305); $10,368,000 is available for 
state planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $29,500,000 is available for 
the national planning and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314): Provided 
further, That of the total budget authority made available for the 
national planning and research program, the Federal Transit 
Administration shall provide the following amounts for the projects and 
activities listed below:
            Zinc-air battery bus technology demonstration, $1,500,000;
            Electric vehicle information sharing and technology 
        transfer program, $1,000,000;
            Portland, ME independent transportation network, $500,000;
            Wheeling, WV mobility study, $250,000;
            Utah advanced traffic management system, transit component, 
        $3,000,000;
            Project ACTION, $3,000,000;
            Trans-Hudson tunnel feasibility study, $5,000,000;
            Washoe County, NV transit technology, $1,250,000;
            Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority advanced electric 
        transit buses and related infrastructure, $1,500,000;
            Palm Springs, CA fuel cell buses, $1,500,000;
            Gloucester, MA intermodal technology center, $1,500,000;
            Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority advanced 
        propulsion control system, $3,000,000; and
            Advanced transit systems and electric vehicle program 
        (CALSTART), $1,000,000.

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $4,638,000,000, to remain available until expended of 
which $4,638,000,000 shall be derived from the Mass Transit Account of 
the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That $2,478,400,000 shall be paid to 
the Federal Transit Administration's formula grants account: Provided 
further, That $86,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's transit planning and research account: Provided 
further, That $48,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's administrative expenses account: Provided further, 
That $4,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
university transportation research account: Provided further, That 
$60,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job 
access and reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That 
$1,960,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
Capital Investment Grants account.

                       Capital Investment Grants

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $490,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $2,451,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That there shall be available for 
fixed guideway modernization, $980,400,000; there shall be available 
for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related 
equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, $490,200,000; 
and there shall be available for new fixed guideway systems 
$980,400,000: Provided further, That, within the total funds provided 
for buses and bus-related facilities to carry out 49 U.S.C. section 
5309, the following projects shall be considered eligible for these 
funds: Provided further, That the Administrator of the Federal Transit 
Administration shall, not later than 60 days after the enactment of 
this Act, individually submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations the recommended grant funding levels for the respective 
projects, from the following projects here listed:
            2001 Special Olympics Winter Games buses and facilities, 
        Anchorage, Alaska
            Adrian buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Alabama statewide rural bus needs, Alabama
            Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District Project, California
            Albany train station/intermodal facility, New York
            Albuquerque SOLAR computerized transit management system, 
        New Mexico
            Albuquerque Westside transit maintenance facility, New 
        Mexico
            Albuquerque, buses, paratransit vehicles, and bus facility, 
        New Mexico
            Alexandria Union Station transit center, Virginia
            Alexandria, bus maintenance facility and Crystal City 
        canopy project, Virginia
            Allegheny County buses, Pennsylvania
            Altoona bus testing facility, Pennsylvania
            Altoona, Metro Transit Authority buses and transit system 
        improvements, Pennsylvania
            Ames transit facility expansion, Iowa
            Anchorage Ship Creek intermodal facility, Alaska
            Arkansas Highway and Transit Department buses, Arkansas
            Arkansas state safety and preventative maintenace facility, 
        Arkansas
            Armstrong County-Mid-County, PA bus facilities and buses, 
        Pennsylvania
            Atlanta, MARTA buses, Georgia
            Attleboro intermodal transit facility, Massachusetts
            Austin buses, Texas
            Babylon Intermodal Center, New York
            Baldwin Rural Area Transportation System buses, Alabama
            Ballston Metro access improvements, Virginia
            Bay/Saginaw buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Beaumont Municipal Transit System buses and bus facilities, 
        Texas
            Beaver County bus facility, Pennsylvania
            Ben Franklin transit buses and bus facilities, Richland, 
        Washington
            Billings buses and bus facilities, Montana
            Birmingham intermodal facility, Alabama
            Birmingham-Jefferson County buses, Alabama
            Blue Water buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Boston Government Center transit center, Massachusetts
            Boston Logan Airport intermodal transit connector, 
        Massachusetts
            Boulder/Denver, RTD buses, Colorado
            Brazos Transit Authority buses and bus facilities, Texas
            Brea shuttle buses, California
            Bremerton multimodal center--Sinclair's Landing, Washington
            Brigham City and Payson regional park and ride lots/transit 
        centers, Utah
            Brockton intermodal transportation center, Massachusetts
            Buffalo, Auditorium Intermodal Center, New York
            Burlington ferry terminal improvements, Vermont
            Burlington multimodal center, Vermont
            Cambria County, bus facilities and buses, Pennsylvania
            Cedar Rapids intermodal facility, Iowa
            Central Ohio Transit Authority vehicle locator system, Ohio
            Centre Area Transportation Authority buses, Pennsylvania
            Chattanooga Southern Regional Alternative fuel bus program, 
        Georgia
            Chester County, Paoli Transportation Center, Pennsylvania
            Chittenden County Transportation Authority buses, Vermont
            Clallam Transit multimodal center, Sequim, Washington
            Clark County Regional Transportation Commission buses and 
        bus facilities, Nevada
            Cleveland, Triskett Garage bus maintenance facility, Ohio
            Clinton transit facility expansion, Iowa
            Colorado buses and bus facilities, Colorado
            Columbia Bus replacement, South Carolina
            Columbia buses and vans, Missouri
            Compton Renaissance Transit System shelters and facilities, 
        California
            Corpus Christi Regional Transportation Authority buses and 
        bus facilities, Texas
            Corvallis buses and automated passenger information system, 
        Oregon
            Culver City, CityBus buses, California
            Dallas Area Rapid Transit buses, Texas
            Davis, Unitrans transit maintenance facility, California
            Dayton, Multimodal Transportation Center, Ohio
            Daytona Beach, Intermodal Center, Florida
            Deerfield Valley Transit Authority buses, Vermont
            Denver 16th Street Intermodal Center
            Denver, Stapleton Intermodal Center, Colorado
            Des Moines transit facilities, Iowa
            Detroit buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Dothan Wiregrass Transit Authority vehicles and transit 
        facility, Alabama
            Dulles Corridor park and ride, Virginia
            Duluth, Transit Authority community circulation vehicles, 
        Minnesota
            Duluth, Transit Authority intelligent transportation 
        systems, Minnesota
            Duluth, Transit Authority Transit Hub, Minnesota
            Dutchess County, Loop System buses, New York
            El Paso Sun Metro buses, Texas
            Elliott Bay Water Taxi ferry purchase, Washington
            Erie, Metropolitan Transit Authority buses, Pennsylvania
            Escambia County buses and bus facility, Alabama
            Essex Junction multimodal station rehabilitation, Vermont
            Everett transit bus replacement, Washington
            Everett, Multimodal Transportation Center, Washington
            Fairbanks intermodal rail/bus transfer facility, Alaska
            Fairfield Transit, Solano County buses, California
            Fayette County, intermodal facilities and buses, 
        Pennsylvania
            Fayetteville, University of Arkansas Transit System buses, 
        Arkansas
            Flint buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Florence, University of North Alabama pedestrian walkways, 
        Alabama
            Folsom multimodal facility, California
            Fort Dodge, Intermodal Facility (Phase II), Iowa
            Fort Worth bus and paratransit vehicle project, Texas
            Fort Worth Transit Authority Corridor Redevelopment 
        Program, Texas
            Franklin County buses and bus facilities, Missouri
            Fuel cell bus and bus facilities program, Georgetown 
        University, District/Columbia
            Gainesville buses and equipment, Florida
            Galveston buses and bus facilities, Texas
            Gary, Transit Consortium buses, Indiana
            Georgia Regional Transportation Authority buses, Georgia
            Georgia statewide buses and bus-related facilities, Georgia
            Gloucester intermodal transportation center, Massachusetts
            Grand Rapids Area Transit Authority downtown transit 
        transfer center, Michigan
            Greensboro multimodal center, North Carolina
            Greensboro, Transit Authority buses, North Carolina
            Harrison County multimodal center, Mississippi
            Hawaii buses and bus facilities
            Healdsburg, intermodal facility, California
            Hillsborough Area Regional Transity Authority, Ybor buses 
        and bus facilities, Florida
            Honolulu, bus facility and buses, Hawaii
            Hot Springs, transportation depot and plaza, Arkansas
            Houston buses and bus facilities, Texas
            Huntington Beach buses and bus facilities, California
            Huntington intermodal facility, West Virginia
            Huntsville Airport international intermodal center, Alabama
            Huntsville Space and Rocket Center intermodal center, 
        Alabama
            Huntsville, transit facility, Alabama
            Hyannis intermodal transportation center, Massachusetts
            I-5 Corridor intermodal transit centers, California
            Illinois statewide buses and bus-related equipment, 
        Illinois
            Indianapolis buses, Indiana
            Inglewood Market Street bus facility/LAX shuttle service, 
        California
            Iowa City multi-use parking facility and transit hub, Iowa
            Iowa statewide buses and bus facilities, Iowa
            Iowa/Illinois Transit Consortium bus safety and security, 
        Iowa
            Isabella buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Ithaca intermodal transportation center, New York
            Ithaca, TCAT bus technology improvements, New York
            Jackson County buses and bus facilities, Missouri
            Jackson J-TRAN buses and facilities, Mississippi
            Jacksonville buses and bus facilities, Florida
            Juneau downtown mass transit facility, Alaska
            Kalamazoo downtown bus transfer center, Michigan
            Kansas City Area Transit Authority buses and Troost transit 
        center, Missouri
            Kansas Public Transit Association buses and bus facilities, 
        Kansas
            Killington-Sherburne satellite bus facility, Vermont
            King Country Metro King Street Station, Washington
            King County Metro Atlantic and Central buses, Washington
            King County park and ride expansion, Washington
            Lackawanna County Transit System buses, Pennsylvania
            Lake Tahoe CNG buses, Nevada
            Lake Tahoe/Tahoe Basin buses and bus facilities, California
            Lakeland, Citrus Connection transit vehicles and related 
        equipment, Florida
            Lane County, Bus Rapid Transit, Oregon
            Lansing, CATA buses, Michigan
            Las Cruces buses and bus facilities, New Mexico
            Las Cruces intermodal transportation plaza, New Mexico
            Las Vegas intermodal transit transfer facility, Nevada
            Las Vegas South Strip intermodal facility, Nevada
            Lincoln County Transit District buses, Oregon
            Lincoln Star Tran bus facility, Nebraska
            Little Rock River Market and College Station transfer 
        facility, Arkansas
            Little Rock, Central Arkansas Transit buses, Arkansas
            Livermore Amador Valley Transit Authority buses, California
            Livermore automatic vehicle locator program, California
            Long Island, CNG transit vehicles and facilities and bus 
        replacement, New York
            Los Angeles County Metropolitan transportation authority 
        buses, California
            Los Angeles Foothill Transit buses and bus facilities, 
        California
            Los Angeles Municipal Transit Operators Coalition, 
        California
            Los Angeles, Union Station Gateway Intermodal Transit 
        Center, California
            Louisiana statewide buses and bus-related facilities, 
        Louisiana
            Lowell performing arts center transit transfer facility, 
        Massachusetts
            Lufkin intermodal center, Texas
            Maryland statewide alternative fuel buses, Maryland
            Maryland statewide bus facilities and buses, Maryland
            Mason City Region 2 office and maintenance transit 
        facility, Iowa
            Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority buses, 
        Massachusetts
            Merrimack Valley Regional Transit Authority bus facilities, 
        Massachusetts
            Miami Beach multimodal transit center, Florida
            Miami Beach, electric shuttle service, Florida
            Miami-Dade Northeast transit center, Florida
            Miami-Dade Transit buses, Florida
            Michigan State University campus boarding centers, Michigan
            Michigan statewide buses, Michigan
            Mid-Columbia Council of Governments minivans, Oregon
            Milwaukee County, buses, Wisconsin
            Mineola/Hicksville, LIRR intermodal centers, New York
            Missoula buses and bus facilities, Montana
            Missouri statewide bus and bus facilities, Missouri
            Mobile buses, Alabama
            Mobile waterfront terminal complex, Alabama
            Modesto, bus maintenance facility, California
            Monterey, Monterey-Salinas buses, California
            Monterey, Monterey-Salinas transit refueling facility, 
        California
            Montgomery Moulton Street intermodal center, Alabama
            Montgomery Union Station intermodal center and buses, 
        Alabama
            Mount Vernon, buses and bus related facilities, Washington
            Mukilteo multimodal terminal ferry and transit project, 
        Washington
            New Castle County buses and bus facilities, Delaware
            New Hampshire statewide transit systems, New Hampshire
            New Haven bus facility, Connecticut
            New Jersey Transit alternative fuel buses, New Jersey
            New Jersey Transit jitney shuttle buses, New Jersey
            New Mexico State University park and ride facilities, New 
        Mexico
            New York City Midtown West 38th Street Ferry Terminal, New 
        York
            New York, West 72nd St. Intermodal Station, New York
            Newark Passaic River bridge and arena pedestrian walkway, 
        New Jersey
            Newark, Morris & Essex Station access and buses, New Jersey
            Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority buses, New York
            North Carolina statewide buses and bus facilities, North 
        Carolina
            North Dakota statewide buses and bus-related facilities, 
        North Dakota
            North San Diego County transit district buses, California
            North Star Borough intermodal facility, Alaska
            Northern New Mexico Transit Express/Park and Ride buses, 
        New Mexico
            Northstar Corridor, Intermodal Facilities and buses, 
        Minnesota
            Norwich buses, Connecticut
            OATS Transit, Missouri
            Ogden Intermodal Center, Utah
            Ohio Public Transit Association buses and bus facilities, 
        Ohio
            Oklahoma statewide bus facilities and buses, Oklahoma
            Olympic Peninsula International Gateway Transportation 
        Center, Washington
            Omaha Missouri River transit pedestrian facility, Nebraska
            Ontonagon buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Orlando Intermodal Facility, Florida
            Orlando, Lynx buses and bus facilities, Florida
            Palm Beach County Palmtran buses, Florida
            Palmdale multimodal center, California
            Park City Intermodal Center, Utah
            Pee Dee buses and facilities, South Carolina
            Penn's Landing ferry vehicles, Pennsylvania
            Pennsylvania Commonwealth combined bus and facilities, 
        Pennsylvania
            Perris bus maintenance facility, California
            Philadelphia, Frankford Transportation Center, Pennsylvania
            Philadelphia, Intermodal 30th Street Station, Pennsylvania
            Philadelphia, PHLASH shuttle buses, Pennsylvania
            Philadelphia, SEPTA Center City improvements, Pennsylvania
            Philadelphia, SEPTA Paoli transportation center, 
        Pennsylvania
            Philadelphia, SEPTA Girard Avenue intermodal transportation 
        centers, Pennsylvania
            Phoenix bus and bus facilities, Arizona
            Pierce County Transit buses and bus facilities, Washington
            Pittsfield intermodal center, Massachusetts
            Port of Corpus Christi ferry infrastructure and ferry 
        purchase, Texas
            Port of St. Bernard intermodal facility, Louisiana
            Portland, Tri-Met bus maintenance facility, Oregon
            Portland, Tri-Met buses, Oregon
            Prince William County bus replacement, Virginia
            Providence, buses and bus maintenance facility, Rhode 
        Island
            Reading, BARTA Intermodal Transportation Facility, 
        Pennsylvania
            Rensselaer intermodal bus facility, New York
            Rhode Island Public Transit Authority buses, Rhode Island
            Richmond, GRTC bus maintenance facility, Virginia
            Riverside Transit Agency buses and facilities, California
            Robinson, Towne Center Intermodal Facility, Pennsylvania
            Sacramento CNG buses, California
            Salem Area Mass Ttransit System buses, Oregon
            Salt Lake City hybrid electric vehicle bus purchase, Utah
            Salt Lake City International Airport transit parking and 
        transfer center, Utah
            Salt Lake City Olympics bus facilities, Utah
            Salt Lake City Olympics regional park and ride lots, Utah
            Salt Lake City Olympics transit bus loan project, Utah
            San Bernardino buses, California
            San Bernardino County Mountain area Regional Transit 
        Authority fueling stations, California
            San Diego MTD buses and bus facilities, California
            San Francisco, Islais Creek maintenance facility, 
        California
            San Joaquin buses and bus facilities, Stockton, California
            San Juan Intermodal access, Puerto Rico
            San Marcos Capital Area Rural Transportation System (CARTS) 
        intermodal project, Texas
            Sandy buses, Oregon
            Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit district bus facilities, 
        California
            Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority buses and bus 
        facilities, California
            Santa Clarita buses, California
            Santa Cruz metropolitan bus facilities, California
            Santa Fe CNG buses, New Mexico
            Santa Fe paratransit/computer systems, New Mexico
            Santa Marie organization of transportation helpers 
        minibuses, California
            Savannah/Chatham Area transit bus transfer centers and 
        buses, Georgia
            Seattle Sound Transit buses and bus facilities, Washington
            Seattle, intermodal transportation terminal, Washington
            SMART buses and bus facilities, Michigan
            Snohomish County, Community Transit buses, equipment and 
        facilities, Washington
            Solano Links intercity transit OTR bus purchase, California
            Somerset County bus facilities and buses, Pennsylvania
            South Amboy, Regional Intermodal Transportation Initiative, 
        New Jersey
            South Bend, Urban Intermodal Transportation Facility, 
        Indiana
            South Carolina statewide bus and bus facility.
            South Carolina Virtual Transit Enterprise, South Carolina
            South Dakota statewide bus facilities and buses, South 
        Dakota
            South Metro Area Rapid Transit (SMART) maintenance 
        facility, Oregon
            Southeast Missouri transportation service rural, elderly, 
        disabled service, Missouri
            Springfield Metro/VRE pedestrian link, Virginia
            Springfield, Union Station, Massachusetts
            St. Joseph buses and vans, Missouri
            St. Louis, Bi-state Intermodal Center, Missouri
            St. Louis Bi-state Metro Link buses
            Sunset Empire Transit District intermodal transit facility, 
        Oregon
            Syracuse CNG buses and facilities, New York
            Tacoma Dome, buses and bus facilities, Washington
            Tennessee statewide buses and bus facilities, Tennessee
            Texas statewide small urban and rural buses, Texas
            Topeka Transit offstreet transit transfer center, Kansas
            Towamencin Township, Intermodal Bus Transportation Center, 
        Pennsylvania
            Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky (TANK) buses, 
        Kentucky
            Tucson buses, Arizona
            Twin Cities area metro transit buses and bus facilities, 
        Minnesota
            Utah Transit Authority buses, Utah
            Utah Transit Authority, intermodal facilities, Utah
            Utah Transit Authority/Park City Transit, buses, Utah
            Utica Union Station, New York
            Valley bus and bus facilities, Alabama
            Vancouver Clark County (SEATRAN) bus facilities, Washington
            Washington County intermodal facilities, Pennsylvania
            Washington State DOT combined small transit system buses 
        and bus facilities, Washington
            Washington, D.C. Intermodal Transportation Center, 
        District/Columbia
            Washoe County transit improvements, Nevada
            Waterbury, bus facility, Connecticut
            West Falls Church Metro station improvements, Virginia
            West Lafayette bus transfer station/terminal (Wabash 
        Landing), Indiana
            West Virginia Statewide Intermodal Facility and buses, West 
        Virginia
            Westchester County DOT, articulated buses, New York
            Westchester County, Bee-Line transit system fareboxes, New 
        York
            Westchester County, Bee-Line transit system shuttle buses, 
        New York
            Westminster senior citizen vans, California
            Westmoreland County, Intermodal Facility, Pennsylvania
            Whittier intermodal facility and pedestrian overpass, 
        Alaska
            Wilkes-Barre, Intermodal Facility, Pennsylvania
            Williamsport bus facility, Pennsylvania
            Wisconsin statewide bus facilities and buses, Wisconsin
            Worcester, Union Station Intermodal Transportation Center, 
        Massachusetts
            Yuma paratransit buses, Arizona:
Provided further, That within the total funds provided for new fixed 
guideway systems to carry out 49 U.S.C. section 5309, the following 
projects shall be considered eligible for these funds: Provided 
further, That the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration 
shall, not later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act, 
individually submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations the recommended grant funding levels for the respective 
projects.
    The following new fixed guideway systems and extensions to existing 
systems are eligible to receive funding for final design and 
construction:
            Alaska or Hawaii ferries;
            Albuquerque/Greater Albuquerque mass transit project;
            Atlanta North Line Extension;
            Austin Capital Metro Northwest/North Central Corridor 
        project;
            Baltimore Central Light Rail double tracking project;
            Boston North-South Rail Link;
            Boston Piers Transitway phase 1;
            Charlotte North-South corridor transitway project;
            Chicago Metra commuter rail extensions;
            Chicago Transit Authority Ravenswood and Douglas branch 
        line projects;
            Cleveland Euclid Corridor;
            Dallas Area Rapid Transit North Central LRT extension;
            Dane County, WI commuter rail project;
            Denver Southeast Corridor project;
            Denver Southwest LRT project;
            Fort Lauderdale Tri-Rail commuter rail project;
            Galveston rail trolley extension project;
            Houston Regional Bus Plan;
            Lahaina Harbor, Maui ferries;
            Las Vegas Corridor/Clark County regional fixed guideway 
        project;
            Little Rock River Rail project;
            Long Island Rail Road East Side Access project;
            Los Angeles Metro Rail--MOS 3 and Eastside/Mid City 
        corridors;
            MARC expansion programs: Silver Spring intermodal center 
        and Penn-Camden rail connection;
            Memphis Area Transit Authority medical center extension;
            Miami East-West Corridor project;
            Miami North 27th Avenue corridor;
            New Orleans Airport-CBD commuter rail project;
            New Orleans Canal Streetcar Spine;
            New Orleans Desire Streetcar;
            Newark-Elizabeth rail link project;
            Norfolk-Virginia Beach Corridor project;
            Northern New Jersey--Hudson-Bergen LRT project;
            Orange County Transitway project;
            Orlando I-4 Central Florida LRT project;
            Philadelphia Schuykill Valley Metro;
            Phoenix--Central Phoenix/East Valley Corridor;
            Pittsburgh Airborne Shuttle System;
            Pittsburgh North Shore--Central Business District corridor;
            Pittsburgh State II light rail project;
            Port McKenzie-Ship Creek, AK ferry project;
            Portland Westside-Hillsboro Corridor project;
            Providence-Boston commuter rail;
            Raleigh-Durham--Research Triangle regional rail;
            Sacramento South Corridor LRT project;
            Salt Lake City South LRT Olympics capacity improvements;
            Salt Lake City South LRT project;
            Salt Lake City/Airport to University (West-East) light rail 
        project;
            Salt Lake City-Ogden-Provo commuter rail project;
            San Bernardino MetroLink extension project;
            San Diego Mid Coast Corridor;
            San Diego Mission Valley East LRT extension project;
            San Diego Oceanside-Escondido passenger rail project;
            San Francisco BART to Airport extension;
            San Jose Tasman LRT project;
            San Juan--Tren Urbano;
            Seattle Sound Move Link LRT project;
            Spokane South Valley Corridor light rail project;
            St. Louis--St. Clair County, Illinois LRT project;
            Tacoma-Seattle Sounder commuter rail project;
            Tampa Bay regional rail system; and the
            Twin Cities Transitways Corridors projects.
    The following new fixed guideway systems and extensions to existing 
systems are eligible to receive funding for alternatives analysis and 
preliminary engineering:
            Atlanta--Lindbergh Station to MARTA West Line feasibility 
        study;
            Atlanta MARTA South DeKalb comprehensive transit program;
            Baltimore Central Downtown MIS;
            Bergen County, NJ/Cross County light rail project;
            Birmingham, Alabama transit corridor;
            Boston North Shore Corridor and Blue Line extension to 
        Beverly;
            Boston Urban Ring project;
            Bridgeport Intermodal Corridor project, Connecticut;
            Calais, ME Branch Rail Line regional transit program;
            Charleston, SC Monobeam corridor project;
            Cincinnati Northeast/Northern Kentucky rail line project;
            Colorado--Roaring Fork Valley Rail;
            Detroit--commuter rail to Detroit metropolitan airport 
        feasibility study;
            El Paso--Juarez international fixed guideway;
            Girdwood, Alaska commuter rail project;
            Harrisburg-Lancaster Capitol Area Transit Corridor 1 
        commuter rail;
            Houston Advanced Transit Program;
            Indianapolis Northeast Downtown Corridor project;
            Jacksonville fixed guideway corridor;
            Johnson County, Kansas I-35 commuter rail project;
            Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee rail extension project;
            Knoxville to Memphis commuter rail feasibility study;
            Los Angeles/City of Sepulveda Douglas Street Green Line 
        connection;
            Miami Metrorail Palmetto extension;
            Montpelier-St. Albans, VT commuter rail study;
            Nashua, NY-Lowell, MA commuter rail project;
            New Jersey Trans-Hudson midtown corridor study;
            New London waterfront access project;
            New York Second Avenue Subway feasibility study;
            Northern Indiana South Shore commuter rail project;
            Old Saybrook--Hartford Rail Extension;
            Philadelphia SEPTA commuter rail, R-3 connection--Elwyn to 
        Wawa;
            Philadelphia SEPTA Cross County Metro;
            Salt Lake City light rail extensions;
            Santa Fe/El Dorado rail link;
            Stamford fixed guideway connector;
            Stockton Altamont Commuter Rail;
            Virginia Railway Express Woodbridge transit access station 
        improvements project;
            Washington, D.C. Dulles Corridor extension project;
            Washington Metro Blue Line extension--Addison Road;
            Western Montana regional transportation/commuter rail 
        study; and the
            Wilsonville to Washington County, OR connection to 
        Westside.

                          Discretionary Grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

               (highway trust fund, mass transit account)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of previous 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5338(b), $1,500,000,000, 
to remain available until expended and to be derived from the Mass 
Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund.

                 Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $75,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes.

             SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $11,496,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                     Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $30,752,000, of which $575,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $3,500,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                            Pipeline Safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$36,104,000, of which $4,704,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2002; and of which $30,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $16,500,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That in addition to amounts made 
available for the Pipeline Safety Fund, $1,400,000 shall be available 
for grants to States for the development and establishment of one-call 
notification systems and public education activities, and shall be 
derived from amounts previously collected under 49 U.S.C. 60301.

                     Emergency Preparedness Grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall be made available for 
obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, 
or his designee.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$48,000,000, of which $43,000,000 shall be derived from transfers of 
funds from the United States Coast Guard, the Federal Aviation 
Administration, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal 
Railroad Administration, and the Federal Transit Administration.

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $15,400,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,600,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That any fees received in excess 
of $1,600,000 in fiscal year 2000 shall remain available until 
expended, but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 
2000.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $4,500,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$51,500,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                             Emergency Fund

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board 
for accident investigations, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for 
a GS-15; uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2000 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. Funds appropriated under this Act for expenditures by the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall be available: (1) except as 
otherwise authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), for expenses of primary 
and secondary schooling for dependents of Federal Aviation 
Administration personnel stationed outside the continental United 
States at costs for any given area not in excess of those of the 
Department of Defense for the same area, when it is determined by the 
Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the locality are 
unable to provide adequately for the education of such dependents; and 
(2) for transportation of said dependents between schools serving the 
area that they attend and their places of residence when the Secretary, 
under such regulations as may be prescribed, determines that such 
schools are not accessible by public means of transportation on a 
regular basis.
    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 100 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. The Secretary of Transportation may enter into grants, 
cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local 
government, any educational institution, and any other entity in 
execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the 
Defense Conversion, Reinvestment and Transition Assistance Act of 1992 
and related legislation: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
section may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 309. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 310. (a) For fiscal year 2000, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        and amounts authorized for the highway use tax evasion program 
        and the Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for sections set forth in 
                paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b) and sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for section 105 of title 
                23, United States Code, equal to the amount referred to 
                in subsection (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the 
                aggregate of the amounts not distributed under 
                paragraph (1) of this subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for section 117 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to high priority projects program), 
        section 201 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 
        1965, the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, 
        and $2,000,000,000 for such fiscal year under section 105 of 
        the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (relating to 
        minimum guarantee) so that the amount of obligation authority 
        available for each of such sections is equal to the amount 
        determined by multiplying the ratio determined under paragraph 
        (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such section 
        (except in the case of section 105, $2,000,000,000) for such 
        fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined 
        under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated 
        for such program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for 
        the minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 
147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under 
section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 
131(b) and 131(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; 
(5) under sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and 
Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under section 1103 
through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991; (7) under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 23, 
United States Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for 
such fiscal year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 
1015 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapters 3 and 5 of 
title 23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made 
available for such programs under such limitation shall remain 
available for a period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds 
(1) that are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
Federal-aid highways programs (other than the program under section 160 
of title 23, United States Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and chapter 4 of title 23, 
United States Code, and (2) that the Secretary determines will not be 
allocated to the States, and will not be available for obligation, in 
such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation limitation for 
such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall be made in the 
same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority under subsection 
(a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for any purposes 
described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    (f) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) for a section set forth in subsection 
(a)(4) shall remain available until used for obligation of funds for 
such section and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
construction programs for future fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel 
traffic safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa 
Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic 
Separation Scheme.
    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) instrument landing systems (along with associated approach 
lighting equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to 
FAA design and performance specifications, the purchase of which was 
assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, airport development aid 
program or airport improvement program grant. The FAA shall accept such 
equipment, which shall thereafter be operated and maintained by the FAA 
in accordance with agency criteria.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that: (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in 
excess of $10,000,000 in any one year of the contract; (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's 
liability; or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which 
the Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 316. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for 
the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State 
legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or 
any State legislature.
    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except 
for fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this 
Act under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' 
for projects specified in this Act or identified in reports 
accompanying this Act not obligated by September 30, 2002, and other 
recoveries, shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 
5309.
    Sec. 318. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 1999, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 319. Funds provided in this Act for the Transportation 
Administrative Service Center (TASC) shall be reduced by $60,000,000, 
which limits fiscal year 2000 TASC obligational authority for elements 
of the Department of Transportation funded in this Act to no more than 
$169,953,000: Provided, That such reductions from the budget request 
shall be allocated by the Department of Transportation to each 
appropriations account in proportion to the amount included in each 
account for the Transportation Administrative Service Center.
    Sec. 320. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited 
respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's Federal aid-
highway account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Transit 
Planning and Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad 
Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State 
rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
20105.
    Sec. 321. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no state 
shall receive more than 12.5 percent of the total budget resources made 
available by this Act to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, 5310 and 5311: 
Provided, That for purposes of this calculation the Federal Transit 
Administration shall include the appropriate state distribution of the 
funding provided to urbanized areas: Provided further, That the amounts 
recovered from such reductions shall be distributed equally: Provided 
further, That such reductions and increases shall be made only to the 
formula apportionments.
    Sec. 322. Section 3021 of Public Law 105-178 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (a) in the first sentence, by striking ``single-
                State'';
                    (b) in the second sentence, by striking ``Any'' and 
                all that follows through ``United States Code'' and 
                inserting ``The funds made available to the State of 
                Oklahoma and the State of Vermont to carry out sections 
                5307 and 5311 of title 49, United States Code and 
                sections 133 and 149 of title 23, United States Code''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end of section 3021, the following new 
        subsection (c)--
    ``(c) Grant Requirements.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Amtrak employees employed in the railroad passenger service 
authorized by this section shall be afforded the same labor protections 
afforded other Amtrak employees under the terms of their employment 
contracts.''.
    Sec. 323. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited 
to the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall be subject to 
the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 324. Not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds provided in this 
Act for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees: Provided, That this 
limitation shall not apply to advisory committees established for the 
purpose of conducting negotiated rulemaking in accordance with the 
Negotiated Rulemaking Act, 5 U.S.C. 561-570a, or the Coast Guard's 
advisory council on roles and missions.
    Sec. 325. No funds other than those appropriated to the Surface 
Transportation Board or fees collected by the Board shall be used for 
conducting the activities of the Board.
    Sec. 326. Hereafter, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
receipts, in amounts determined by the Secretary, collected from users 
of fitness centers operated by or for the Department of Transportation 
shall be available to support the operation and maintenance of those 
facilities.
    Sec. 327. Capital Investment grants funds made available in this 
Act and in Public Law 105-277 and in Public Law 105-66 and its 
accompanying conference report for the Charleston, South Carolina 
Monobeam corridor project shall be used to fund any aspect of the 
Charleston, South Carolina Monobeam corridor project.
    Sec. 328. Hereafter, notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 41742, no essential 
air service subsidies shall be provided to communities in the 48 
contiguous States that are located fewer than 70 highway miles from the 
nearest large or medium hub airport, or that require a rate of subsidy 
per passenger in excess of $200 unless such point is greater than 210 
miles from the nearest large or medium hub airport.
    Sec. 329. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department from travel management centers, 
charge card programs, the subleasing of building space, and 
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations of the 
Department and allocated to elements of the Department using fair and 
equitable criteria and such funds shall be available until December 31, 
2000.
    Sec. 330. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of 
an amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 331. For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council 
authorized under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $950,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the duties of the 
Amtrak Reform Council described in section 203(g)(1) of Public Law 105-
134 shall include the identification of Amtrak routes which are 
candidates for closure or realignment, based on performance rankings 
developed by Amtrak which incorporate information on each route's fully 
allocated costs and ridership on core intercity passenger service, and 
which assume, for purposes of closure or realignment candidate 
identification, that federal subsidies for Amtrak will decline over the 
4-year period from fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2002: Provided 
further, That these closure or realignment recommendations shall be 
included in the Amtrak Reform Council's annual report to the Congress 
required by section 203(h) of Public Law 105-134.
    Sec. 332. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any 
other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided, That no 
appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more than 12 per 
centum by all such transfers: Provided further, That any such transfer 
shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
          Sec. 333. None of the Funds made available under this Act or 
any other Act, may be used to implement, carry out, or enforce any 
regulation issued under section 41705 of title 49, United States Code, 
including any regulation contained in part 382 of title 14, Code of 
Federal Regulations, or any other provision of law (including any Act 
of Congress, regulation, or Executive order or any official guidance or 
correspondence thereto), that requires or encourages an air carrier (as 
that term is defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code) 
to, on intrastate or interstate air transportation (as those terms are 
defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code)--
            (1) provide a peanut-free buffer zone or any other related 
        peanut-restricted area; or
            (2) restrict the distribution of peanuts,
until 90 days after submission to the Congress and the Secretary of a 
peer-reviewed scientific study that determines that there are severe 
reactions by passengers to peanuts as a result of contact with very 
small airborne peanut particles of the kind that passengers might 
encounter in an aircraft.
    Sec. 334. For purposes of funding in this Act for the Salt Lake 
City/Airport to University (West-East) light rail project, the non-
governmental share for these funds shall be determined in accordance 
with Section 3030(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century, as amended (Public Law 105-178).
    Sec. 335. Section 5309(g)(1)(B) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate'' the following: ``and the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations''.
    Sec. 336. Section 1212(g) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178), as amended, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and New 
        Jersey'' after ``Minnesota''; and
            (2) by inserting ``or the State of New Jersey'' after 
        ``Minnesota''.
    Sec. 337. The Secretary of Transportation shall execute a 
demonstration program, to be conducted for a period not to exceed 
eighteen months, of the ``fractional ownership'' concept in performing 
administrative support flight missions, the purpose of which would be 
to determine whether cost savings, as well as increased operational 
flexibility and aircraft availability, can be realized through the use 
by the government of the commercial fractional ownership concept or 
report to the Committee the reason for not conducting such an 
evaluation: Provided, That the Secretary shall ensure the competitive 
selection for this demonstration of a fractional ownership concept 
which provides a suite of aircraft capable of meeting the Department's 
varied needs, and that the Secretary shall ensure the demonstration 
program encompasses a significant and representative portion of the 
Department's administrative support missions (to include those 
performed by the Coast Guard, the Federal Aviation Administration, and 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, whose aircraft are 
currently operated by the FAA): Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on 
results of this evaluation of the fractional ownership concept in the 
performance of the administrative support mission no later than twenty-
four months after final passage of this Act or within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act if the Secretary decides not to conduct such a 
demonstration for evaluation including an explanation for such a 
decision.
    Sec. 338. (a) Requirement To Convey.--The Commandant of the Coast 
Guard shall convey, without consideration, to the University of New 
Hampshire (in this section referred to as the ``University'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property (including any improvements thereon) located in New 
Castle, New Hampshire, consisting of approximately five acres and 
including a pier.
    (b) Identification of Property.--The Commandant shall determine, 
identify, and describe the property to be conveyed under this section.
    (c) Easements, Rights-of-Way, and Rights.--(1) The Commandant 
shall, in connection with the conveyance required by subsection (a), 
grant to the University such easements and rights-of-way as the 
Commandant considers necessary to permit access to the property 
conveyed under that subsection.
    (2) The Commandant shall, in connection with such conveyance, 
reserve in favor of the United States such easements and rights as the 
Commandant considers necessary to protect the interests of the United 
States, including easements or rights regarding access to property and 
utilities.
    (d) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance required by 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1) That the University not convey, assign, exchange, or 
        encumber the property conveyed, or any part thereof, unless 
        such conveyance, assignment, exchange, or encumbrance--
                    (A) is made without consideration; or
                    (B) is otherwise approved by the Commandant.
            (2) That the University not interfere or allow interference 
        in any manner with the maintenance or operation of Coast Guard 
        Station Portsmouth Harbor, New Hampshire, without the express 
        written permission of the Commandant.
            (3) That the University use the property for educational, 
        research, or other public purposes.
    (e) Maintenance of Property.--The University, or any subsequent 
owner of the property conveyed under subsection (a) pursuant to a 
conveyance, assignment, or exchange referred to in subsection (d)(1), 
shall maintain the property in a proper, substantial, and workmanlike 
manner, and in accordance with any conditions established by the 
Commandant, pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 
(16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), and other applicable laws.
    (f) Reversionary Interest.--All right, title, and interest in and 
to the property conveyed under this section (including any improvements 
thereon) shall revert to the United States, and the United States shall 
have the right of immediate entry thereon, if--
            (1) the property, or any part thereof, ceases to be used 
        for educational, research, or other public purposes by the 
        University;
            (2) the University conveys, assigns, exchanges, or 
        encumbers the property conveyed, or part thereof, for 
        consideration or without the approval of the Commandant;
            (3) the Commandant notifies the owner of the property that 
        the property is needed the national security purposes and a 
        period of 30 days elapses after such notice; or
            (4) any other term or condition established by the 
        Commandant under this section with respect to the property is 
        violated.
    Sec. 339. (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (c), 
no recipient of funds made available under this Act may sell, or 
otherwise provide to another person or entity, personal information (as 
defined in 18 U.S.C. Section 2725(3)) contained in a driver's license, 
or in any motor vehicle record (as defined in 18 U.S.C. Section 
2725(1)) without the express written consent of the individual to whom 
the information pertains.
    (b) Consent.--No recipient of funds made available under this Act 
may condition or burden in any way the issuance of a motor vehicle 
record (as defined in 19 U.S.C. Section 2725(1)) upon the receipt of 
consent described in subsection (a).
    (c) Law Enforcement.--Subsection (a) does not apply to a law 
enforcement agency in any case in which the application of that 
subsection would hinder the ability of that law enforcement agency, 
acting in accordance with applicable law, to gain access to a driver's 
license or photograph of an individual.
    Sec. 340. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from funds 
provided in the Act, $10,000,000 shall be made available for completion 
of the National Advanced Driving Simulator (NADS).
    Sec. 341. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
1107(b) of Public Law 102-240 is amended by striking ``Construction of 
a replacement bridge at Watervale Bridge #63, Harford County, MD'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``For improvements to Bottom 
Road Bridge, Vinegar Hill Road Bridge and Southampton Road Bridge, 
Harford County, MD''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000''.


                                                       Calendar No. 126

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1143

                          [Report No. 106-55]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 27, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar