[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1205 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 150
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1205

                          [Report No. 106-74]

 Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
  base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 10, 1999

Mr. Burns, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
  base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for military construction, family housing, and base 
realignment and closure functions administered by the Department of 
Defense, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $1,067,422,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That of this amount, not 
to exceed $86,414 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                      Military Construction, Navy

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy as currently authorized by law, 
including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command and 
other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $884,883,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004: Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $66,581,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $783,710,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $32,764,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Defense-wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$770,690,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as he may designate, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation 
or fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $38,664,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $226,734,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2004.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $238,545,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2004.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $105,817,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004.

                  Military Construction, Naval Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $31,475,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2004.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $35,864,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized in 
Military Construction Authorization Acts and section 2806 of title 10, 
United States Code, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$60,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $1,098,080,000; in all 
$1,158,980,000.

                 Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, including 
debt payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and interest 
charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $298,354,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004; for Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, 
$895,070,000; in all $1,193,424,000.

                       Family Housing, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$335,034,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $821,892,000; in all 
$1,156,926,000.

                      Family Housing, Defense-wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration, and for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
and minor construction, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $50,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; 
for Operation and Maintenance, $41,440,000; in all $41,490,000.

              Family Housing Revitalization Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for expenses related to 
improvements to existing family housing; $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may 
transfer these funds only to family housing accounts, within this 
title: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall be merged 
with and shall be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period, as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
That the funds shall not be transferred to the Department of Defense 
Family Housing Improvement Fund.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended, as the sole source of 
funds for planning, administrative, and oversight costs incurred by the 
Housing Revitalization Support Office relating to military family 
housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2883, pertaining 
to alternative means of acquiring and improving military family housing 
and supporting facilities.

             Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
1990 established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $705,911,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $426,036,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
his determination and the reasons therefor.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-
fixed-fee contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
$25,000, to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, 
without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense 
setting forth the reasons therefor.
    Sec. 102. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of 
access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to 
the national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
begin construction of new bases inside the continental United States 
for which specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105. No part of the funds provided in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used for purchase of land or land 
easements in excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the 
Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, 
except: (1) where there is a determination of value by a Federal court; 
(2) purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee; (3) 
where the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for 
site preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
except housing for which funds have been made available in annual 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for minor construction may be used to transfer or 
relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in Military 
Construction Appropriations Acts may be used for the procurement of 
steel for any construction project or activity for which American steel 
producers, fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the 
opportunity to compete for such steel procurement.
    Sec. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be obligated for architect and engineer 
contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects 
to be accomplished in Japan, in any NATO member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for military construction in the United States 
territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or 
in countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any 
contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign 
contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be applicable to 
contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of 
a United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and 
responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent: 
Provided further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards 
for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest 
responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese 
contractor.
    Sec. 113. The Secretary of Defense is to inform the appropriate 
committees of Congress, including the Committees on Appropriations, of 
the plans and scope of any proposed military exercise involving United 
States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended 
for construction, either temporary or permanent, are anticipated to 
exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114. Not more than 20 percent of the appropriations in 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts which are limited for 
obligation during the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the 
last 2 months of the fiscal year.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 115. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 116. For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were appropriated if 
the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118. During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
to the Department of Defense for military construction and family 
housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired for 
obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not be 
necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making authorized 
adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred during the 
period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated balances of 
such appropriations may be transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign 
Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'' to be merged with and to 
be available for the same time period and for the same purposes as the 
appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 119. The Secretary of Defense is to provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives with an 
annual report by February 15, containing details of the specific 
actions proposed to be taken by the Department of Defense during the 
current fiscal year to encourage other member nations of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization, Japan, Korea, and United States allies 
bordering the Arabian Gulf to assume a greater share of the common 
defense burden of such nations and the United States.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, proceeds 
deposited to the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established 
by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base 
Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526) pursuant to section 
207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may be transferred to the account established 
by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1991, to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as that account.
    Sec. 121. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act may be obligated for Partnership for Peace Programs or to provide 
support for non-NATO countries.
    Sec. 122. (a) Not later than 60 days before issuing any 
solicitation for a contract with the private sector for military family 
housing the Secretary of the military department concerned shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees the notice described in 
subsection (b).
    (b)(1) A notice referred to in subsection (a) is a notice of any 
guarantee (including the making of mortgage or rental payments) 
proposed to be made by the Secretary to the private party under the 
contract involved in the event of--
            (A) the closure or realignment of the installation for 
        which housing is provided under the contract;
            (B) a reduction in force of units stationed at such 
        installation; or
            (C) the extended deployment overseas of units stationed at 
        such installation.
    (2) Each notice under this subsection shall specify the nature of 
the guarantee involved and assess the extent and likelihood, if any, of 
the liability of the Federal Government with respect to the guarantee.
    (c) In this section, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
means the following:
            (1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate.
            (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 123. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, amounts may 
be transferred from the account established by section 2906(a)(1) of 
the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1991, to the fund 
established by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and 
Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for 
expenses associated with the Homeowners Assistance Program. Any amounts 
transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes 
and for the same time period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 124. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or any other 
Acts may be used for repair and maintenance of any flag and general 
officer quarters in excess of $25,000 without prior notification 30 
calendar days in advance to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 125. With the exception of budget authority for ``North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program'', ``Family 
Housing, Army'' for operation and maintenance, ``Family Housing, Navy 
and Marine Corps'' for operation and maintenance, ``Family Housing, Air 
Force'' for operation and maintenance and ``Family Housing, Defense-
Wide'' for operation and maintenance, each amount of budget authority 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, provided in this Act, is 
hereby reduced by five per centum: Provided, That such reduction shall 
be applied ratably to each account, program, activity, and project 
provided for in this Act.
    Sec. 126. Not later than April 30, 2000, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report examining 
the adequacy of special education facilities and services available to 
the dependent children of uniformed personnel stationed in the United 
States. The report shall identify the following:
            (1) The schools on military installations in the United 
        States that are operated by the Department of Defense, other 
        entities of the Federal government, or local school districts.
            (2) School districts in the United States that have 
        experienced an increase in enrollment of 20 percent or more in 
        the past five years resulting from base realignments or 
        consolidations.
            (3) The impact of increased special education requirements 
        on student populations, student-teacher ratios, and financial 
        requirements in school districts supporting installations 
        designated by the military departments as compassionate 
        assignment posts.
            (4) The adequacy of special education services and 
        facilities for dependent children of uniformed personnel within 
        the United States, particularly at compassionate assignment 
        posts.
            (5) Corrective measures that are needed to adequately 
        support the special education needs of military families, 
        including such improvements as the renovation of existing 
        schools or the construction of new schools.
            (6) An estimate of the cost of needed improvements, and a 
        recommended source of funding within the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 127. The first proviso under the heading ``MILITARY 
CONSTRUCTION TRANSFER FUND'' in chapter 6 of title II of the 1999 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31) is 
amended by inserting ``and to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
Security Investment Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, 
United States Code'' after ``to military construction accounts''.
    Sec. 128. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to 
carry out conveyance of land at the former Fort Sheridan, Illinois, 
unless such conveyance is consistent with a regional agreement among 
the communities and jurisdictions in the vicinity of Fort Sheridan and 
in accordance with section 2862 of the 1996 Defense Authorization Act 
(division B of Public Law 104-106; 110 Stat. 573).
    (b) The land referred to in paragraph (a) is a parcel of real 
property, including any improvements thereon, located at the former 
Fort Sheridan, Illinois, consisting of approximately 14 acres, and 
known as the northern Army Reserve enclave area, that is covered by the 
authority in section 2862 of the 1996 Defense Authorization Act and has 
not been conveyed pursuant to that authority as to the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 129. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
may be obligated or expended for any purpose relating to the 
construction at Bluegrass Army Depot, Kentucky, of any facility 
employing a specific technology for the demilitarization of assembled 
chemical munitions until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives a report on the results of the completed demonstration 
of the six alternatives to baseline incineration for the destruction of 
chemical agents and munitions as identified by the Program Evaluation 
Team of the Assembled Chemical Weapons Assessment program.
    (b) In order to provide funding for the completion of the 
demonstration of alternatives referred to in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall utilize the authority in section 8127 of the Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262; 112 Stat. 
2333) in accordance with the provisions of that section.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.


                                                       Calendar No. 150

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1205

                          [Report No. 106-74]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
  base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 10, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar