[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1233 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 157
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1233

                          [Report No. 106-80]

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 17, 1999

    Mr. Cochran, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                 Production, Processing, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,836,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service, shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel of the Department of Agriculture to carry out 
section 793(c)(1)(C) of Public Law 104-127: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to enforce section 
793(d) of Public Law 104-127.

                          Executive Operations

                            chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, energy and new uses, 
and the functions of the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as 
authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), 
and including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to 
exceed $5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,411,000.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,583,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,551,000.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,283,000: 
Provided, That the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market cross-
servicing activities of the National Finance Center.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded by this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, $140,364,000: 
Provided, That in the event an agency within the Department should 
require modification of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made available by this 
Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of this 
appropriation to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall 
not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for space rental and 
related costs to or from this account. In addition, for construction, 
repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed 
equipment or facilities as necessary to carry out the programs of the 
Department, where not otherwise provided, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended; making a total appropriation of $145,364,000.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery 
Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to the 
Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be transferred to any 
agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                      Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $34,738,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of 
the Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous 
supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the 
practical and efficient work of the Department, including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
reimbursed from applicable appropriations in this Act for travel 
expenses incident to the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 
551-558.

              outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

     Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
by this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,668,000: Provided, That no 
other funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be 
available to the Department for support of activities of congressional 
relations: Provided further, That not less than $2,241,000 shall be 
transferred to agencies funded by this Act to maintain personnel at the 
agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the 
dissemination of agricultural information, and the coordination of 
information, work, and programs authorized by Congress in the 
Department, $8,138,000, including employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
of which not to exceed $10,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' 
bulletins.

                    Office of the Inspector General

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $65,128,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed $125,000 for certain 
confidential operational expenses, including the payment of informants, 
to be expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to 
Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$30,094,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$65,419,000: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``Food and Nutrition Service, Food 
Program Administration'' for studies and evaluations: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and 
improvements, marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture, as 
authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, the Census of 
Agriculture Act of 1997, and other laws, $99,355,000, of which up to 
$16,490,000 shall be available until expended for the Census of 
Agriculture: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944, and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                     Agricultural Research Service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent 
of the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $809,499,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available for temporary employment pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not 
to exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for 
ten buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$500,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center, including an easement to the University 
of Maryland to construct the Transgenic Animal Facility which upon 
completion shall be accepted by the Secretary as a gift: Provided 
further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement 
of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 
113a): Provided further, That funds may be received from any State, 
other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the 
purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or research 
project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.
    In fiscal year 2000, the agency is authorized to charge fees, 
commensurate with the fair market value, for any permit, easement, 
lease, or other special use authorization for the occupancy or use of 
land and facilities (including land and facilities at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center) issued by the agency, as authorized by 
law, and such fees shall be credited to this account and shall remain 
available until expended for authorized purposes.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $53,000,000, 
to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That 
funds may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any 
research facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized 
by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $180,545,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-i); $21,932,000 for grants for cooperative forestry 
research (16 U.S.C. 582a-a7); $29,676,000 for payments to the 1890 
land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3222); 
$54,276,000 for special grants for agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)); $13,721,000 for special grants for agricultural research on 
improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $119,300,000 for competitive 
research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); $5,109,000 for the support of 
animal health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195); $550,000 for 
supplemental and alternative crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); 
$650,000 for grants for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural 
Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and section 1472 of the Food and 
Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until 
expended; $500,000 for the 1994 research program (7 U.S.C. 301 note); 
$3,000,000 for higher education graduate fellowship grants (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(6)), to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$4,350,000 for higher education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); 
$1,000,000 for a higher education multicultural scholars program (7 
U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b); $2,850,000 for an education grants program for Hispanic-serving 
Institutions (7 U.S.C. 3241); $500,000 for a secondary agriculture 
education program and two-year post-secondary education (7 U.S.C. 3152 
(h)); $4,000,000 for aquaculture grants (7 U.S.C. 3322); $8,000,000 for 
sustainable agriculture research and education (7 U.S.C. 5811); 
$9,200,000 for a program of capacity building grants (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee 
University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$1,552,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 
534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $13,666,000 for necessary expenses 
of Research and Education Activities, of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, $474,377,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                          extension activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: 
For payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, 
to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under 
section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail 
for cooperative extension agents and State extension directors, 
$276,548,000; payments for extension work at the 1994 Institutions 
under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $3,060,000; payments 
for the nutrition and family education program for low-income areas 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $58,695,000; payments for the pest 
management program under section 3(d) of the Act, $10,783,000; payments 
for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,000,000; 
payments to upgrade research, extension, and teaching facilities at the 
1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, as authorized 
by section 1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $12,000,000, to 
remain available until expended; payments for the rural development 
centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $908,000; payments for youth-at-
risk programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,000,000; payments for 
carrying out the provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 
1978, $3,192,000; payments for Indian reservation agents under section 
3(d) of the Act, $1,714,000; payments for sustainable agriculture 
programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural 
health and safety education as authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 
101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 2662), $2,628,000; payments for 
cooperative extension work by the colleges receiving the benefits of 
the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328) and Tuskegee 
University, $25,843,000; and for Federal administration and 
coordination including administration of the Smith-Lever Act, and the 
Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-349), and section 1361(c) of 
the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), and to coordinate and 
provide program leadership for the extension work of the Department and 
the several States and insular possessions, $10,940,000; in all, 
$421,620,000: Provided, That funds hereby appropriated pursuant to 
section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 1953, and section 506 of the Act of 
June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to any State, the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, 
Northern Marianas, and American Samoa prior to availability of an equal 
sum from non-Federal sources for expenditure during the current fiscal 
year.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension competitive 
grants programs, including necessary administrative expenses, 
$35,541,000, as follows: payments for the water quality program, 
$13,000,000; payments for the food safety program, $15,000,000; 
payments for the national agriculture pesticide impact assessment 
program, $4,541,000; payments for the methyl bromide transition 
program, $3,000,000, as authorized under section 406 of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 
U.S.C. 7626).

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; to 
discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act 
of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and to protect the 
environment, as authorized by law, $437,445,000, of which $4,105,000 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to 
the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, That no 
funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
eradication program for the current fiscal year that does not require 
minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance 
of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall 
be for replacement only: Provided further, That, in addition, in 
emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural production 
industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from other 
appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations of 
the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, and section 
102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, and any unexpended balances of 
funds transferred for such emergency purposes in the next preceding 
fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred amounts: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings 
and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering 
any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of 
the current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 2000, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
    Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
2000, $90,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $7,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, 
and regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration 
and coordination of payments to States, including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $51,229,000, including funds for the wholesale market 
development program for the design and development of wholesale and 
farmer market facilities for the major metropolitan areas of the 
country: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $60,730,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $12,443,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act 
of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain 
under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, including field 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $24,287,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

         limitation on inspection and weighing service expenses

    Not to exceed $42,557,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the 
Congress for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, $638,404,000, and in addition, 
$1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees collected for the 
cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 of 
Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of the Egg 
Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$794,839,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to 
and merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall 
be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, 
and in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, 
at a fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove 
his milk from commercial markets because of: (1) the presence of 
products of nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic 
substances not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 
13, 1968 (7 U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were 
not used in a manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling 
instructions provided at the time of use and the contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer, $450,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained 
in this Act shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer 
whose milk was removed from commercial markets as a result of the 
farmer's willful failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That this amount shall be transferred to 
the Commodity Credit Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary 
is authorized to utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy 
indemnity disbursements.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $559,422,000, of which $431,373,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,397,842,000, of which 
$1,697,842,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$200,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe 
land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,028,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; and for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $100,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $7,243,000, of which 
$2,416,000, shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$70,860,000, of which $23,940,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans and $17,620,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian 
tribe land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $21,000; 
and for emergency insured loans, $3,882,000 to meet the needs resulting 
from natural disasters.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $214,161,000, of which 
$209,861,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership and operating direct loans and 
guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs with the prior 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                         Risk Management Agency

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 6933), 
$64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 2000, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse 
the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but 
not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 
17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).

       operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 2000, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, 
That expenses shall be for operations and maintenance costs only and 
that other hazardous waste management costs shall be paid for by the 
USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, $693,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$656,243,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,990,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $9,125,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal 
land, that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 
U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for technical assistance and related expenses to carry out 
programs authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River 
Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That qualified local 
engineers may be temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the 
technical planning work of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1009), $10,368,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing 
works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1005 and 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 
(16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws 
relating to the activities of the Department, $99,443,000, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 
may be available for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control 
Act approved June 22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): 
Provided, That not to exceed $47,000,000 of this appropriation shall be 
available for technical assistance: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this 
appropriation is available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), including cooperative efforts 
as contemplated by that Act to relocate endangered or threatened 
species to other suitable habitats as may be necessary to expedite 
project construction.

                 resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant 
to the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones 
Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of April 
27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 
(16 U.S.C. 3451-3461), $35,000,000, to remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                      forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
the program of forestry incentives, as authorized by the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

                               TITLE III

           RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the 
Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

                  rural community advancement program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932, except for 
sections 381E-H, 381N, and 381O of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f), $718,006,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $23,150,000 shall be for rural community 
programs described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; of which 
$630,257,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs described in 
section 381E(d)(2), 306C(a)(2), and 306D of such Act; and of which 
$64,599,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative development 
programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided, That of 
the amount appropriated for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available 
for a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for 
rural utilities programs, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for water 
and waste disposal systems to benefit the Colonias along the United 
States/Mexico borders, including grants pursuant to section 306C of 
such Act; not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for water and waste 
disposal systems for rural and native villages in Alaska pursuant to 
section 306D of such Act; not to exceed $16,500,000 shall be for 
technical assistance grants for rural waste systems pursuant to section 
306(a)(14) of such Act; and not to exceed $7,300,000 shall be for 
contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit rider 
program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$45,245,000 shall be available through June 30, 2000, for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66, 
of which $2,106,000 shall be for rural community programs described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; of which $34,704,000 shall be for the 
rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; 
of which $8,435,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: 
Provided further, That any obligated and unobligated balances available 
from prior years for the ``Rural Utilities Assistance Program'' 
account, shall be transferred to and merged with this account.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $4,300,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $3,200,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $32,396,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $100,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family 
housing loans; $25,001,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$114,321,000 for section 515 rental housing; $5,152,000 for section 524 
site loans; $12,824,000 for credit sales of acquired property, of which 
up to $2,150,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and $5,000,000 
for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $113,350,000, of which 
$19,520,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $9,900,000; section 538 multi-family housing 
guaranteed loans, $480,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$11,308,000; section 515 rental housing, $45,363,000; section 524 site 
loans, $4,000; credit sales of acquired property, $1,499,000, of which 
up to $850,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and section 523 
self-help housing land development loans, $281,000: Provided, That of 
the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, $11,180,000 shall be 
for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by 
Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 
2000, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes under 
this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $360,785,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$640,000,000; and, in addition, such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount, not 
more than $5,900,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or 
payments for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) 
of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to 
nonprofit organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other 
than purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to 
section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements 
entered into or renewed during fiscal year 2000 shall be funded for a 
five-year period, although the life of any such agreement may be 
extended to fully utilize amounts obligated.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $26,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 2000, they shall remain available for other 
authorized purposes under this head.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants and contracts for housing for domestic farm labor, very 
low-income housing repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, and rural housing preservation 
made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 
1479(c), 1486, 1490e, and 1490m, $41,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,200,000 
shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds 
are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by 
June 30, 2000, they shall remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, and 
cooperative agreements, $60,978,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

              rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,615,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $38,256,000: Provided 
further, That through June 30, 2000, of the total amount appropriated, 
$3,216,000 shall be available for the cost of direct loans for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by Public 
Law 103-66, to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans, $7,246,000: Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 
2000, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes under 
this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $3,337,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$15,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,453,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments in fiscal year 2000, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $3,453,000 shall not be obligated and 
$3,453,000 are rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $5,500,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be available for 
cooperative agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for 
rural areas program.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act; section 1323 of the Food Security Act 
of 1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities relating 
to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946; for 
activities with institutions concerning the development and operation 
of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$25,680,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $260,000 may be 
used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

  Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation 
                             Revolving Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$3,500,000 is appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Corporation Revolving Fund.

                        Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $71,500,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $295,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that 
Act, rural electric, $700,000,000 and rural telecommunications, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of direct loans, $1,483,000; cost 
of municipal rate loans, $10,826,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $2,370,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower 
interest rates may exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs. During fiscal year 2000 and within the 
resources and authority available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $157,509,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
$2,961,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

               distance learning and telemedicine program

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., $13,200,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
available for loans and grants for telemedicine and distance learning 
services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of direct loans shall 
be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $33,000,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$554,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$9,560,028,000, to remain available through September 30, 2001, of 
which $4,624,829,000 is hereby appropriated and $4,935,199,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That, except as specifically 
provided under this heading, none of the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, up to 
$13,000,000 shall be for school breakfast pilot projects, including the 
evaluation required under section 18(e) of the National School Lunch 
Act: Provided further, That up to $4,363,000 shall be available for 
independent verification of school food service claims: Provided 
further, That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
unless the value of bonus commodities provided under section 32 of the 
Act of August 24, 1935 (49 Stat. 774, chapter 641; 7 U.S.C. 612c), and 
section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431) is included 
in meeting the minimum commodity assistance requirement of section 6(g) 
of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(g)).

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $4,038,107,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2001: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: 
Provided further, That of the total amount available, the Secretary 
shall obligate $10,000,000 for the farmers' market nutrition program 
within 45 days of the enactment of this Act, and an additional 
$5,000,000 for the farmers' market nutrition program from any funds not 
needed to maintain current caseload levels: Provided further, That none 
of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay administrative 
expenses of WIC clinics except those that have an announced policy of 
prohibiting smoking within the space used to carry out the program: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this account shall 
be available for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance 
with the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements 
specified in section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided shall be available for 
activities that are not fully reimbursed by other federal government 
departments or agencies unless authorized by section 17 of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $21,563,744,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be placed 
in reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this head shall be used for studies and 
evaluations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and Training 
under this head shall remain available until expended, as authorized by 
section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, $131,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program.

                        food donations programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973; special assistance for the nuclear 
affected islands as authorized by section 103(h)(2) of the Compacts of 
Free Association Act of 1985, as amended; and section 311 of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, $141,081,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001.

                      food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $111,561,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law and of which not less than $3,000,000 shall 
be available to improve integrity in the Food Stamp and Child Nutrition 
programs: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $150,000 shall 
be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $136,203,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the United States Agency for International Development: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, up to $2,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended solely for the purpose of offsetting 
fluctuations in international currency exchange rates, subject to 
documentation by the Foreign Agricultural Service.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

               public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1704, 1721-1726a, 1727-1727e, 1731-1736g-3, 
and 1737), as follows: (1) $142,840,000 for Public Law 480 title I 
credit, including Food for Progress programs; (2) $16,249,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985; and (3) $787,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad 
pursuant to title II of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 15 
percent of the funds made available to carry out any title of said Act 
may be used to carry out any other title of said Act: Provided further, 
That such sums shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, including the cost of modifying credit 
agreements under said Act, $117,786,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public 
Law 480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, 
to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are utilized, 
$1,850,000, of which $1,035,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales 
Manager'' and $815,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

       commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$3,820,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $3,231,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager'' and $589,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $1,180,972,000, of which not to 
exceed $145,434,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this appropriation and 
remain available until expended: Provided, That fees derived from 
applications received during fiscal year 2000 shall be subject to the 
fiscal year 2000 limitation: Provided further, That none of these funds 
shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user 
fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated: (1) $264,845,000 shall be for the Center for Food 
Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (2) $309,026,000 shall be for the Center for 
Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than $11,542,000 shall be 
available for grants and contracts awarded under section 5 of the 
Orphan Drug Act (21 U.S.C. 360ee); (3) $132,092,000 shall be for the 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $48,221,000 shall 
be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $154,271,000 shall 
be for the Center for Devices and Radiological Health and for related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $34,436,000 
shall be for the National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) 
$34,000,000 shall be for the Office of Tobacco; (8) $25,855,000 shall 
be for Rent and Related activities, other than the amounts paid to the 
General Services Administration; (9) $100,180,000 shall be for payments 
to the General Services Administration for rent and related costs; and 
(10) $78,046,000 shall be for other activities, including the Office of 
the Commissioner; the Office of Policy; the Office of the Senior 
Associate Commissioner; the Office of International and Constituent 
Relations; the Office of Policy, Legislation, and Planning; and central 
services for these offices: Provided further, That funds may be 
transferred from one specified activity to another with the prior 
approval of the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this account, to remain 
available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$8,350,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not to exceed 
$25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $61,000,000, including not 
to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided, That the Commission is authorized to charge reasonable fees 
to attendees of Commission sponsored educational events and symposia to 
cover the Commission's costs of providing those events and symposia, 
and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                     TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the fiscal year 2000 under this Act shall be available 
for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided for, of 
not to exceed 365 passenger motor vehicles, of which 361 shall be for 
replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the appropriations of the 
Department of Agriculture in this Act for research and service work 
authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 1954 (7 U.S.C. 
427 and 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available for contracting in accordance with said Acts and 
chapter.
    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. New obligational authority provided for the following 
appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the 
contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit fly program, 
integrated systems acquisition project, and up to $2,000,000 for costs 
associated with collocating regional offices; Farm Service Agency, 
salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; and 
Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training program.
    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field 
automation and information management project; funds appropriated for 
rental payments; funds for the Native American Institutions Endowment 
Fund in the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service; and funds for the competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)), shall remain available until expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 
94-449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against competitive agricultural research, 
education, or extension grant awards issued by the Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service that exceed 19 percent of 
total Federal funds provided under each award: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 1462 of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds 
provided by this Act for grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service shall be 
available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant awarded 
under the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 
97-219 (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 711. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all 
loan levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 712. Appropriations for the Rural Housing Insurance Fund 
Program Account for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans made 
available in fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 shall 
remain available until expended to cover obligations made in each of 
those fiscal years respectively, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1557.
    Sec. 713. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 2000 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 2000 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account; and the rural economic 
development loans program account.
    Sec. 714. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2000 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 715. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing 
Service; Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; and 
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between the Agricultural Marketing 
Service; the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; 
or the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a State or 
Cooperator to carry out agricultural marketing programs, or to carry 
out programs to protect the Nation's animal and plant resources.
    Sec. 716. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, the Natural Resources Conservation Service may enter 
into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with a State agency 
or subdivision, or a public or private organization, for the 
acquisition of goods or services, including personal services, to carry 
out natural resources conservation activities: Provided, That Commodity 
Credit Corporation funds obligated for such purposes shall not exceed 
the level obligated by the Commodity Credit Corporation for such 
purposes in fiscal year 1998.
    Sec. 717. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5 percent of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank or to 
maintain any account or subaccount within the accounting records of the 
Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not specifically been 
authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to the 
Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural Telephone 
Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of current 
requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set forth for 
financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit Reform Act 
of 1990.
    Sec. 718. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,800,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants: Provided, That interagency funding is 
authorized to carry out the purposes of the National Drought Policy 
Commission.
    Sec. 719. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918 of Public Law 104-127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act.
    Sec. 720. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or 
otherwise make available to any non-Department of Agriculture employee 
questions or responses to questions that are a result of information 
requested for the appropriations hearing process.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without the prior approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 723. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates 
a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any project or activity for which funds have been denied 
or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes 
offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes 
any functions or activities presently performed by Federal employees; 
unless the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding 
for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel 
by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
unless the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the transfer or obligation of 
fiscal year 2000 funds under the provisions of section 793 of Public 
Law 104-127.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel who carry out an environmental quality incentives program 
authorized by sections 334-341 of Public Law 104-127 in excess of 
$174,000,000.
    Sec. 726. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise available to 
the Department of Agriculture in fiscal year 2000 or thereafter may be 
used to administer the provision of contract payments to a producer 
under the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) 
for contract acreage on which wild rice is planted unless the contract 
payment is reduced by an acre for each contract acre planted to wild 
rice.
    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to enroll in excess of 180,000 acres in the fiscal year 2000 
wetlands reserve program as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3837.
    Sec. 728. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out the emergency food assistance program authorized 
by section 27(a) of the Food Stamp Act if such program exceeds 
$97,000,000.
    Sec. 729. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the transfer or obligation of 
fiscal year 2000 funds under the provisions of section 401 of Public 
Law 105-185 in excess of $50,000,000.
    Sec. 730. Notwithstanding section 381A of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009), in fiscal year 2000 and 
thereafter, the definitions of rural areas for certain business 
programs administered by the Rural Business-Cooperative Service and the 
community facilities programs administered by the Rural Housing Service 
shall be those provided for in statute and regulations prior to the 
enactment of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 731. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to carry out any commodity purchase 
program that would prohibit eligibility or participation by farmer-
owned cooperatives.
    Sec. 732. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out a conservation farm option program, as 
authorized by section 335 of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 733. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate, or to 
plan to close or relocate, the Food and Drug Administration Division of 
Drug Analysis in St. Louis, Missouri.
    Sec. 734. None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act for any fiscal year may be used to carry out section 302(h) of the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(h)) unless the 
Secretary of Agriculture inspects and certifies agricultural processing 
equipment, and imposes a fee for the inspection and certification, in a 
manner that is similar to the inspection and certification of 
agricultural products under that section, as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided, That this provision shall not affect the authority 
of the Secretary to carry out the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 
et seq.), or the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq.).
    Sec. 735. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who 
prepare or submit appropriations language as part of the President's 
Budget submission to the Congress of the United States for programs 
under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittees on 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies that assumes 
revenues or reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user 
fees proposals that have not been enacted into law prior to the 
submission of the Budget unless such Budget submission identifies which 
additional spending reductions should occur in the event the users fees 
proposals are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a 
committee of conference for the fiscal year 2001 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 736. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to establish an Office of Community 
Food Security or any similar office within the United States Department 
of Agriculture without the prior approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 737. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to carry out provision 
of section 612 of Public Law 105-185.
    Sec. 738. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2000 and thereafter, permanent employees of county committees 
employed on or after October 1, 1998, pursuant to 8(b) of the Soil 
Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) shall be 
considered as having Federal Civil Service status only for the purpose 
of applying for the United States Department of Agriculture Civil 
Service vacancies.
    Sec. 739. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with regard 
to the lands and facilities owned by the federal government and 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture at Fort Reno, Oklahoma, 
the Secretary shall not, at any time hereafter without specific 
authorization of Congress: (1) declare all or any part of such lands or 
facilities as excess or surplus, or (2) transfer or convey all or any 
part of such lands or facilities.
    Sec. 740. The Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service 
shall redistribute funds to apply toward a Public Law 566 watershed 
project closeout using A-102 authority for settlement costs of this 
project in Mississippi.
    Sec. 741. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall offer to enter into an 
agreement with the Governor of the State of Hawaii to conduct a pilot 
program to inspect mail entering the State of Hawaii for any plant, 
plant product, plant pest, or other organism that is subject to Federal 
quarantine laws.
    (b) The agreement described in subsection (a) shall contain the 
same terms and conditions as are contained in the memorandum of 
understanding entered into between the Secretary and the State of 
California, dated February 1, 1999, unless the Secretary and the 
Governor agree to different terms or conditions.
    (c) Unless the Secretary and the Governor agree otherwise, the 
agreement described in subsection (b) shall terminate on the later of--
            (A) the date that is 1 year after the date the agreement 
        becomes effective; or
            (B) the date that the February 1, 1999 memorandum of 
        understanding terminates.
    Sec. 742. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
is authorized under Section 306 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926), to provide guaranteed 
lines of credit, including working capital loans, for health care 
facilities, to address Year 2000 computer conversion issues.
    Sec. 743. After taking any action involving the seizure, 
quarantine, treatment, destruction, or disposal of wheat infested with 
karnal bunt, the Secretary of Agriculture shall compensate the 
producers for economic losses incurred as the result of the action not 
later than 45 days after receipt of a claim that includes all 
appropriate paperwork.
    Sec. 744. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $3,000,000 is 
appropriated for the purpose of providing Bill Emerson and Mickey 
Leland Hunger Fellowships through the Congressional Hunger Center, 
which is an organization described in subsection (c)(3) of section 501 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under 
subsection (a) of such section.
    Sec. 745. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are 
hereby appropriated $250,000 for the program authorized under Section 
388 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, 
solely for use in the State of New Hampshire.
    Sec. 746. The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1188 et 
seq.) is amended: (a) in Section 218(c)(1) by striking ``60 days'' and 
inserting ``45 days'', and (b) in Section 218(c)(3)(A) by striking ``20 
days'' and inserting ``30 days''.
    Sec. 747. Successorship Provisions Relating to Bargaining Units and 
Exclusive Representatives. (a) Voluntary Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--If the exercise of the Secretary of 
        Agriculture's authority under this Act results in changes to an 
        existing bargaining unit that has been certified under chapter 
        71 of title 5, United States Code, the affected parties shall 
        attempt to reach a voluntary agreement on a new bargaining unit 
        and an exclusive representative for such unit.
            (2) Criteria.--In carrying out the requirements of this 
        subsection, the affected parties shall use criteria set forth 
        in--
                    (A) sections 7103(a)(4), 7111(e), 7111(f)(1), and 
                7120 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                determining an exclusive representative; and
                    (B) section 7112 of title 5, United States Code 
                (disregarding subsections (b)(5) and (d) thereof), 
                relating to determining appropriate units.
    (b) Effect of an Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--If the affected parties reach agreement on 
        the appropriate unit and the exclusive representative for such 
        unit under subsection (a), the Federal Labor Relations 
        Authority shall certify the terms of such agreement, subject to 
        paragraph (2)(A). Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        considered to require the holding of any hearing or election as 
        a condition for certification.
            (2) Restrictions.--
                    (A) Conditions requiring noncertification.--The 
                Federal Labor Relations Authority may not certify the 
                terms of an agreement under paragraph (1) if--
                            (i) it determines that any of the criteria 
                        referred to in subsection (a)(2) (disregarding 
                        section 7112(a) of title 5, United States Code) 
                        have not been met; or
                            (ii) after the Secretary's exercise of 
                        authority and before certification under this 
                        section, a valid election under section 7111(b) 
                        of title 5, United States Code, is held 
                        covering any employees who would be included in 
                        the unit proposed for certification.
                    (B) Temporary waiver of provision that would bar an 
                election after a collective bargaining agreement is 
                reached.--Nothing in section 7111(f)(3) of title 5, 
                United States Code, shall prevent the holding of an 
                election under section 7111(b) of such title that 
                covers employees within a unit certified under 
                paragraph (1), or giving effect to the results of such 
                an election (including a decision not to be represented 
                by any labor organization), if the election is held 
                before the end of the 12-month period beginning on the 
                date such unit is so certified.
                    (C) Clarification.--The certification of a unit 
                under paragraph (1) shall not, for purposes of the last 
                sentence of section 7111(b) of title 5, United States 
                Code, or section 7111(f)(4) of such title, be treated 
                as if it had occurred pursuant to an election.
            (3) Delegation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal Labor Relations 
                Authority may delegate to any regional director (as 
                referred to in section 7105(e) of title 5, United 
                States Code) its authority under the preceding 
                provisions of this subsection.
                    (B) Review.--Any action taken by a regional 
                director under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to 
                review under the provisions of section 7105(f) of title 
                5, United States Code, in the same manner as if such 
                action had been taken under section 7105(e) of such 
                title, except that in the case of a decision not to 
                certify, such review shall be required if application 
                therefore is filed by an affected party within the time 
                specified in such provisions.
    (c) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``affected 
party'' means--
            (1) with respect to an exercise of authority by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under this Act, any labor organization 
        affected thereby; and
            (2) the Department of Agriculture.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000''.


                                                       Calendar No. 157

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1233

                          [Report No. 106-80]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 17, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar