[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1650 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 290
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1650

 Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 28, 1999

    Mr. Specter, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act, including 
the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and other facilities, and the 
purchase of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
Workforce Investment Act; the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act; the National Skill Standards Act of 1994; and the School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act; $2,750,694,000 plus reimbursements, of which 
$1,380,266,000 is available for obligation for the period July 1, 2000 
through June 30, 2001; of which $1,250,965,000 is available for 
obligation for the period April 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001; of which 
$53,463,000 is available for the period July 1, 2000 through June 30, 
2003, for necessary expenses of construction, rehabilitation, and 
acquisition of Job Corps centers; and of which $55,000,000 shall be 
available from July 1, 2000 through September 30, 2001, for carrying 
out activities of the School-to-Work Opportunities Act: Provided, That 
$60,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 166 of the Workforce 
Investment Act, and $7,000,000 shall be for carrying out the National 
Skills Standards Act of 1994: Provided further, That no funds from any 
other appropriation shall be used to provide meal services at or for 
Job Corps centers: Provided further, That funds provided to carry out 
section 171(d) of such Act may be used for demonstration projects that 
provide assistance to new entrants in the workforce and incumbent 
workers: Provided further, That funding appropriated herein for 
Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities under section 
132(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 may be distributed 
for Dislocated Worker Projects under section 171(d) of the Act without 
regard to the 10 percent limitation contained in section 171(d) of the 
Act.
    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Investment Act, including 
the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and other facilities, and the 
purchase of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
Workforce Investment Act; $2,720,315,000 plus reimbursements, of which 
$2,637,120,000 is available for obligation for the period October 1, 
2000 through June 30, 2001; and of which $83,195,000 is available for 
the period October 1, 2000 through June 30, 2003, including $80,195,000 
for necessary expenses of construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition 
of Job Corps centers.
    In addition to the amounts appropriated under this heading in 
Public Law 105-277 to carry out the provisions of section 402 of the 
Job Training Partnership Act, an additional $1,551,000 is made 
available for obligation from October 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000.

            community service employment for older americans

    To carry out the activities for national grants or contracts with 
public agencies and public or private nonprofit organizations under 
paragraph (1)(A) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans 
Act of 1965, as amended, or to carry out older worker activities as 
subsequently authorized, $343,356,000.
    To carry out the activities for grants to States under paragraph 
(3) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as 
amended, or to carry out older worker activities as subsequently 
authorized, $96,844,000.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during the current fiscal year of trade adjustment 
benefit payments and allowances under part I; and for training, 
allowances for job search and relocation, and related State 
administrative expenses under part II, subchapters B and D, chapter 2, 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, $415,150,000, together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15 of 
the current year.

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $196,952,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,161,121,000 (including not to exceed $1,228,000 which 
may be used for amortization payments to States which had independent 
retirement plans in their State employment service agencies prior to 
1980), which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund including the 
cost of administering section 1201 of the Small Business Job Protection 
Act of 1996, section 7(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, section 
461 of the Job Training Partnership Act, the Trade Act of 1974, as 
amended, the Immigration Act of 1990, and the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, as amended, and of which the sums available in the 
allocation for activities authorized by title III of the Social 
Security Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 502-504), and the sums available in 
the allocation for necessary administrative expenses for carrying out 5 
U.S.C. 8501-8523, shall be available for obligation by the States 
through December 31, 2000, except that funds used for automation 
acquisitions shall be available for obligation by the States through 
September 30, 2002; and of which $196,952,000, together with not to 
exceed $778,283,000 of the amount which may be expended from said trust 
fund, shall be available for obligation for the period July 1, 2000 
through June 30, 2001, to fund activities under the Act of June 6, 
1933, as amended, including the cost of penalty mail authorized under 
39 U.S.C. 3202(a)(1)(E) made available to States in lieu of allotments 
for such purpose, and of which $151,333,000 shall be available only to 
the extent necessary for additional State allocations to administer 
unemployment compensation laws to finance increases in the number of 
unemployment insurance claims filed and claims paid or changes in a 
State law: Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (AWIU) for fiscal year 2000 is projected by the Department 
of Labor to exceed 2,638,000, an additional $28,600,000 shall be 
available for obligation for every 100,000 increase in the AWIU level 
(including a pro rata amount for any increment less than 100,000) from 
the Employment Security Administration Account of the Unemployment 
Trust Fund: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act which 
are used to establish a national one-stop career center network may be 
obligated in contracts, grants or agreements with non-State entities: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act for activities 
authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, and title III of 
the Social Security Act, may be used by the States to fund integrated 
Employment Service and Unemployment Insurance automation efforts, 
notwithstanding cost allocation principles prescribed under Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-87.

        advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, as amended, and 
to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 
9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; and for 
nonrepayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 
section 8509 of title 5, United States Code, and to the ``Federal 
unemployment benefits and allowances'' account, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001, $356,000,000.
    In addition, for making repayable advances to the Black Lung 
Disability Trust Fund in the current fiscal year after September 15, 
2000, for costs incurred by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund in the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                         program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$103,208,000, including $6,578,000 to support up to 75 full-time 
equivalent staff, to administer welfare-to-work grants, together with 
not to exceed $46,132,000, which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

              Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Pension and Welfare Benefits 
Administration, $99,831,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is authorized to make such 
expenditures, including financial assistance authorized by section 104 
of Public Law 96-364, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program through September 30, 2000, for such Corporation: Provided, 
That not to exceed $11,352,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses of the Corporation: Provided further, That expenses of such 
Corporation in connection with the termination of pension plans, for 
the acquisition, protection or management, and investment of trust 
assets, and for benefits administration services shall be considered as 
non-administrative expenses for the purposes hereof, and excluded from 
the above limitation.

                  Employment Standards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards Administration, 
including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their 
employees for inspection services rendered, $341,047,000, together with 
$1,740,000 which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance 
with sections 39(c), 44(d) and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall be for the 
development of an alternative system for the electronic submission of 
reports as required to be filed under the Labor-Management Reporting 
and Disclosure Act of 1959, as amended, and for a computer database of 
the information for each submission by whatever means, that is indexed 
and easily searchable by the public via the Internet: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept, retain, and spend, 
until expended, in the name of the Department of Labor, all sums of 
money ordered to be paid to the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with 
the terms of the Consent Judgment in Civil Action No. 91-0027 of the 
United States District Court for the District of the Northern Mariana 
Islands (May 21, 1992): Provided further, That the Secretary of Labor 
is authorized to establish and, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
collect and deposit in the Treasury fees for processing applications 
and issuing certificates under sections 11(d) and 14 of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 211(d) and 214) and for 
processing applications and issuing registrations under title I of the 
Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1801 
et seq.).

                            special benefits

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by title 5, chapter 81 of the United States 
Code; continuation of benefits as provided for under the head 
``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation 
Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 
1944; sections 4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2012); and 50 percent of the additional compensation and benefits 
required by section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act, as amended, $79,000,000 together with such amounts as 
may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for 
the payment of compensation and other benefits for any period 
subsequent to August 15 of the current year: Provided, That amounts 
appropriated may be used under section 8104 of title 5, United States 
Code, by the Secretary of Labor to reimburse an employer, who is not 
the employer at the time of injury, for portions of the salary of a 
reemployed, disabled beneficiary: Provided further, That balances of 
reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 1999, shall remain 
available until expended for the payment of compensation, benefits, and 
expenses: Provided further, That in addition there shall be transferred 
to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from any other 
corporation or instrumentality required under section 8147(c) of title 
5, United States Code, to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost 
of administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost 
of administration for employees of such fair share entities through 
September 30, 2000: Provided further, That of those funds transferred 
to this account from the fair share entities to pay the cost of 
administration, $21,849,000 shall be made available to the Secretary as 
follows: for the operation of and enhancement to the automated data 
processing systems, including document imaging and medical bill review, 
in support of Federal Employees' Compensation Act administration, 
$13,433,000; for program staff training to operate the new imaging 
system, $1,300,000; for the periodic roll review program, $7,116,000; 
and the remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
require that any person filing a notice of injury or a claim for 
benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, or 33 U.S.C. 
901 et seq., provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying 
information (including Social Security account number) as such 
regulations may prescribe.

                    black lung disability trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Beginning in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, such sums as may be 
necessary from the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended, for payment of all benefits authorized by 
section 9501 (d)(1), (2), (4) and (7), of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1954, as amended; and interest on advances as authorized by section 
9501(c)(2) of that Act. In addition, the following amounts shall be 
available from the Fund for fiscal year 2000 for expenses of operation 
and administration of the Black Lung Benefits program as authorized by 
section 9501 (d)(5) of that Act: $28,676,000 for transfer to the 
Employment Standards Administration, ``Salaries and Expenses''; 
$21,144,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries and 
Expenses''; $318,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Office 
of Inspector General''; and $356,000 for payments into Miscellaneous 
Receipts for the expenses of the Department of Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $388,142,000, including not to exceed $83,501,000 which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which grants 
shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State occupational 
safety and health programs required to be incurred under plans approved 
by the Secretary under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act of 1970; and, in addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration may retain up to $750,000 
per fiscal year of training institute course tuition fees, otherwise 
authorized by law to be collected, and may utilize such sums for 
occupational safety and health training and education grants: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, to 
collect and retain fees for services provided to Nationally Recognized 
Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, in accordance with the 
provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer national and international 
laboratory recognition programs that ensure the safety of equipment and 
products used by workers in the workplace: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be obligated or 
expended to prescribe, issue, administer, or enforce any standard, 
rule, regulation, or order under the Occupational Safety and Health Act 
of 1970 which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a farming 
operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 
ten or fewer employees: Provided further, That no funds appropriated 
under this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to administer or 
enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Occupational 
Safety and Health Act of 1970 with respect to any employer of ten or 
fewer employees who is included within a category having an 
occupational injury lost workday case rate, at the most precise 
Standard Industrial Classification Code for which such data are 
published, less than the national average rate as such rates are most 
recently published by the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, in accordance with section 24 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 673), 
except--
            (1) to provide, as authorized by such Act, consultation, 
        technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
        conduct surveys and studies;
            (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response 
        to an employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations 
        found during such inspection, and to assess a penalty for 
        violations which are not corrected within a reasonable 
        abatement period and for any willful violations found;
            (3) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to imminent dangers;
            (4) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to health hazards;
            (5) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to a report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or 
        more employees or which results in hospitalization of two or 
        more employees, and to take any action pursuant to such 
        investigation authorized by such Act; and
            (6) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to complaints of discrimination against employees for 
        exercising rights under such Act: Provided further, That the 
        foregoing proviso shall not apply to any person who is engaged 
        in a farming operation which does not maintain a temporary 
        labor camp and employs ten or fewer employees.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $230,873,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles; including not to exceed 
$750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health and Safety 
Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of training materials, 
otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to be available for mine 
safety and health education and training activities, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302; and, in addition, the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration may retain up to $1,000,000 in fees collected for the 
approval and certification of equipment, materials, and explosives for 
use in mines, and may utilize such sums for such activities; the 
Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, and 
other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, or 
private; the Mine Safety and Health Administration is authorized to 
promote health and safety education and training in the mining 
community through cooperative programs with States, industry, and 
safety associations; and any funds available to the Department may be 
used, with the approval of the Secretary, to provide for the costs of 
mine rescue and survival operations in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $353,781,000, of 
which $6,986,000 shall be for expenses of revising the Consumer Price 
Index and shall remain available until September 30, 2001, together 
with not to exceed $55,663,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three sedans, and including up to $7,250,000 for the 
President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities, and 
including the management or operation of Departmental bilateral and 
multilateral foreign technical assistance, $247,001,000; together with 
not to exceed $310,000, which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund: 
Provided, That no funds made available by this Act may be used by the 
Solicitor of Labor to participate in a review in any United States 
court of appeals of any decision made by the Benefits Review Board 
under section 21 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act 
(33 U.S.C. 921) where such participation is precluded by the decision 
of the United States Supreme Court in Director, Office of Workers' 
Compensation Programs v. Newport News Shipbuilding, 115 S. Ct. 1278 
(1995), notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in 
Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure: Provided further, 
That no funds made available by this Act may be used by the Secretary 
of Labor to review a decision under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) that has been appealed and 
that has been pending before the Benefits Review Board for more than 12 
months: Provided further, That any such decision pending a review by 
the Benefits Review Board for more than one year shall be considered 
affirmed by the Benefits Review Board on the one-year anniversary of 
the filing of the appeal, and shall be considered the final order of 
the Board for purposes of obtaining a review in the United States 
courts of appeals: Provided further, That these provisions shall not be 
applicable to the review or appeal of any decision issued under the 
Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 901 et seq.): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, up to $10,000 of 
funding appropriated under title I of this Act for salaries and 
expenses may be used for receiving and hosting officials of foreign 
states and official foreign delegations in furtherance of Departmental 
functions or activities.

        assistant secretary for veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $185,613,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4100-4110A, 4212, 4214 and 4321-4327, 
and Public Law 103-353, and which shall be available for obligation by 
the States through December 31, 2000.

                      office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $48,095,000, together with not to exceed $3,830,000, which may 
be expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this title for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the compensation of an individual, either as 
direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate in excess 
of Executive Level III.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified at least fifteen 
days in advance of any transfer.

           TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                     health resources and services

    For carrying out titles II, III, VII, VIII, X, XII, XIX, and XXVI 
of the Public Health Service Act, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal 
Mine Health and Safety Act, title V and section 1820 of the Social 
Security Act, the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, as 
amended, the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, as amended, and 
the Ricky Ray Hemophilia Relief Fund Act of 1998, $4,365,498,000, of 
which $150,000 shall remain available until expended for interest 
subsidies on loan guarantees made prior to fiscal year 1981 under part 
B of title VII of the Public Health Service Act, and of which 
$10,000,000 shall be available for the construction and renovation of 
health care and other facilities, and of which $25,000,000 from general 
revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social Security Act, 
shall be available for carrying out the Medicare rural hospital 
flexibility grants program under section 1820 of such Act: Provided, 
That the Division of Federal Occupational Health may utilize personal 
services contracting to employ professional management/administrative 
and occupational health professionals: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $250,000 shall be available 
until expended for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long 
Hansen's Disease Center: Provided further, That in addition to fees 
authorized by section 427(b) of the Health Care Quality Improvement Act 
of 1986, fees shall be collected for the full disclosure of information 
under the Act sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the 
National Practitioner Data Bank, and shall remain available until 
expended to carry out that Act: Provided further, That no more than 
$5,000,000 is available for carrying out the provisions of Public Law 
104-73: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $222,432,000 shall be for the program under title X of the 
Public Health Service Act to provide for voluntary family planning 
projects: Provided further, That amounts provided to said projects 
under such title shall not be expended for abortions, that all 
pregnancy counseling shall be nondirective, and that such amounts shall 
not be expended for any activity (including the publication or 
distribution of literature) that in any way tends to promote public 
support or opposition to any legislative proposal or candidate for 
public office: Provided further, That $536,000,000 shall be for State 
AIDS Drug Assistance Programs authorized by section 2616 of the Public 
Health Service Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available under this heading may be used 
to continue operating the Council on Graduate Medical Education 
established by section 301 of Public Law 102-408: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $50,000,000 shall 
remain available for the Ricky Ray Hemophilia Relief Fund until 
November 11, 2003: Provided further, That fees collected for the full 
disclosure of information under the ``Health Care Fraud and Abuse Data 
Collection Program,'' authorized by section 221 of the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, shall be sufficient to 
recover the full costs of operating the Program, and shall remain 
available to carry out that Act until expended.

               medical facilities guarantee and loan fund

           federal interest subsidies for medical facilities

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1602 of the 
Public Health Service Act, $1,000,000, together with any amounts 
received by the Secretary in connection with loans and loan guarantees 
under title VI of the Public Health Service Act, to be available 
without fiscal year limitation for the payment of interest subsidies. 
During the fiscal year, no commitments for direct loans or loan 
guarantees shall be made.

           health education assistance loans program account

    Such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
program, as authorized by Title VII of the Public Health Service Act, 
as amended. For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, including section 709 of the Public Health Service Act, 
$3,688,000.

             vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund, such sums as may be necessary for claims associated with vaccine-
related injury or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $3,000,000 shall 
be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                disease control, research, and training

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, XIX and XXVI of the 
Public Health Service Act, sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, 
and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, sections 20, 
21 and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, title IV 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980; including insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries; and hire, maintenance, and operation of 
aircraft, $2,751,838,000 of which $39,800,000 shall remain available 
until expended for equipment and construction and renovation of 
facilities, and in addition, such sums as may be derived from 
authorized user fees, which shall be credited to this account: 
Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, up to 
$109,573,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 
241 of the Public Health Service Act, to carry out the National Center 
for Health Statistics surveys: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available for injury prevention and control at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention may be used to advocate or promote gun 
control: Provided further, That the Director may redirect the total 
amount made available under authority of Public Law 101-502, section 3, 
dated November 3, 1990, to activities the Director may so designate: 
Provided further, That the Congress is to be notified promptly of any 
such transfer.
    In addition, $51,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, for carrying out sections 40151 and 40261 of 
Public Law 103-322.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cancer, $3,286,859,000.

               national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, 
and blood and blood products, $2,001,185,000.

         national institute of dental and craniofacial research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to dental disease, $267,543,000.

    national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, 
$1,130,056,000.

        national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
$1,019,271,000.

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
$1,786,718,000.

             national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, $1,352,843,000.

        national institute of child health and human development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to child health and human development, 
$848,044,000.

                         national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
$445,172,000.

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out sections 301 and 311 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health sciences, 
$436,113,000.

                      national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to aging, $680,332,000.

 national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin 
diseases, $350,429,000.

    national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
$261,962,000.

                 national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to nursing research, $90,000,000.

           national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $291,247,000.

                    national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $682,536,000.

                  national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to mental health, $969,494,000.

                national human genome research institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to human genome research, $337,322,000.

                 national center for research resources

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to research resources and general research 
support grants, $655,988,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall 
be used to pay recipients of the general research support grants 
program any amount for indirect expenses in connection with such 
grants: Provided further, That $60,000,000 shall be for extramural 
facilities construction grants, of which $30,000,000 shall become 
available October 1, 2000, and remain available through September 30, 
2001.

       national center for complementary and alternative medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to complementary and alternative medicine, 
$56,214,000 to be available for obligation through September 30, 2001.

                  john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities at the John E. Fogarty 
International Center, $43,723,000.

                      national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to health information communications, 
$210,183,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
improvement of information systems: Provided, That in fiscal year 2000, 
the Library may enter into personal services contracts for the 
provision of services in facilities owned, operated, or constructed 
under the jurisdiction of the National Institutes of Health.

                         office of the director

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, National Institutes of Health, $299,504,000: Provided, That 
funding shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed twenty-
nine passenger motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, 
That the Director may direct up to 1 percent of the total amount made 
available in this or any other Act to all National Institutes of Health 
appropriations to activities the Director may so designate: Provided 
further, That no such appropriation shall be decreased by more than 1 
percent by any such transfers and that the Congress is promptly 
notified of the transfer: Provided further, That NIH is authorized to 
collect third party payments for the cost of clinical services that are 
incurred in National Institutes of Health research facilities and that 
such payments shall be credited to the National Institutes of Health 
Management Fund: Provided further, That all funds credited to the NIH 
Management Fund shall remain available for one fiscal year after the 
fiscal year in which they are deposited.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the study of, construction of, and acquisition of equipment 
for, facilities of or used by the National Institutes of Health, 
including the acquisition of real property, $100,732,000, to remain 
available until expended.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

               substance abuse and mental health services

    For carrying out titles V and XIX of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to substance abuse and mental health services, the 
Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986, and 
section 301 of the Public Health Service Act with respect to program 
management, $2,750,700,000, of which $100,000,000 shall become 
available on October 1, 2000 and remain available until September 30, 
2001.

     retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), and for payments 
pursuant to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), such amounts as may be required during the current fiscal 
year.

               Agency for Health Care Policy and Research

                    health care policy and research

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health Service 
Act, and part A of title XI of the Social Security Act, $19,504,000; in 
addition, amounts received from Freedom of Information Act fees, 
reimbursable and interagency agreements, and the sale of data tapes 
shall be credited to this appropriation and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the amount made available pursuant to 
section 926(b) of the Public Health Service Act shall not exceed 
$191,751,000.

                  Health Care Financing Administration

                     grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $86,087,393,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That beginning in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, 
for expenses incurred by Medicaid under title XXI of the Social 
Security Act, Medicaid may accept as reimbursement in advance amounts 
from the ``State Children's Health Insurance Fund,'' such amounts to 
remain available as provided under title XXI.
    For making, after May 31, 2000, payments to States under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 2000 for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on 
behalf of States, under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2001, $30,589,003,000, to remain available 
until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with respect to 
a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such quarter, if 
submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that or any 
subsequent quarter.

                  payments to health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
217(g) and 1844 of the Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) 
of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of Public Law 
97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 
201(g) of the Social Security Act, $69,289,100,000.

                           program management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement 
Amendments of 1988, not to exceed $1,991,321,000, to be transferred 
from the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of the 
Social Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance 
with section 353 of the Public Health Service Act and such sums as may 
be collected from authorized user fees and the sale of data, which 
shall remain available until expended, and together with administrative 
fees collected relative to Medicare overpayment recovery activities, 
which shall be transferred to the Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control 
(HCFAC) account and remain available until expended: Provided, That all 
funds derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations 
established under title XIII of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of this 
appropriation: Provided further, That $18,000,000 appropriated under 
this heading for the managed care system redesign shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be obligated to increase Medicare provider 
audits and implement the Department's corrective action plan to the 
Chief Financial Officer's audit of the Health Care Financing 
Administration's oversight of Medicare: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services is directed to collect, in 
aggregate, $95,000,000 in fees in fiscal year 2000 from Medicare+Choice 
organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act 
and from eligible organizations with risk-sharing contracts under 
section 1876 of that Act pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.

      health maintenance organization loan and loan guarantee fund

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1308 of the 
Public Health Service Act, any amounts received by the Secretary in 
connection with loans and loan guarantees under title XIII of the 
Public Health Service Act, to be available without fiscal year 
limitation for the payment of outstanding obligations. During fiscal 
year 1999, no commitments for direct loans or loan guarantees shall be 
made.

                Administration for Children and Families

  payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), for the first quarter of fiscal 
year 2001, $650,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For making payments to each State for carrying out the program of 
Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title IV-A of the Social 
Security Act before the effective date of the program of Temporary 
Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) with respect to such State, such 
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That the sum of the amounts 
available to a State with respect to expenditures under such title IV-A 
in fiscal year 1997 under this appropriation and under such title IV-A 
as amended by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 shall not exceed the limitations under 
section 116(b) of such Act.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 
U.S.C. ch. 9), for the last three months of the current year for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.

                   low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under title XXVI of the Omnibus Reconciliation 
Act of 1981, $1,100,000,000, to be available for obligation in the 
period October 1, 2000 through September 30, 2001.
    For making payments under title XXVI of such Act, $300,000,000: 
Provided, That these funds are hereby designated by the Congress to be 
emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, 
That these funds shall be made available only after submission to the 
Congress of a formal budget request by the President that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For making payments for refugee and entrant assistance activities 
authorized by title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 
96-422), $423,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That funds appropriated pursuant to section 414(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act under Public 105-78 for fiscal year 
1998 and under Public Law 105-277 for fiscal year 1999 shall be 
available for the costs of assistance provided and other activities 
through September 30, 2001.
    For carrying out section 5 of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 
1998 (Public Law 105-320), $7,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

   payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For carrying out sections 658A through 658R of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981 (The Child Care and Development Block Grant 
Act of 1990), to become available on October 1, 2000 and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, $1,182,672,000: Provided, That 
$19,120,000 shall be available for child care resource and referral and 
school-aged child care activities.

                      social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,050,000,000: Provided, That (1) notwithstanding 
section 2003(c) of such Act, as amended, the amount specified for 
allocation under such section for fiscal year 2000 shall be 
$1,050,000,000 and (2) notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 
404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable percent specified under such 
subparagraph for a State to carry out State programs pursuant to title 
XX of such Act for fiscal year 2000 shall be 5 percent.

                children and families services programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title II of 
Public Law 95-266 (adoption opportunities), the Adoption and Safe 
Families Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-89), the Abandoned Infants 
Assistance Act of 1988, part B(1) of title IV and sections 413, 429A, 
1110, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; for making payments under 
the Community Services Block Grant Act, section 473A of the Social 
Security Act, and title IV of Public Law 105-285; and for necessary 
administrative expenses to carry out said Acts and titles I, IV, X, XI, 
XIV, XVI, and XX of the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960 
(24 U.S.C. ch. 9), the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, title 
IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980, section 5 of the Torture Victims 
Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-320), sections 40155, 40211 and 
40241 of Public Law 103-322 and section 126 and titles IV and V of 
Public Law 100-485, $6,682,635,000, of which $20,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001, shall be for grants to States for 
adoption incentive payments, as authorized by section 473A of title IV 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670-679); of which $500,000,000 
shall be for making payments under the Community Services Block Grant 
Act; and of which $5,267,000,000 shall be for making payments under the 
Head Start Act, of which $1,900,000,000 shall become available October 
1, 2000 and remain available through September 30, 2001: Provided, That 
to the extent Community Services Block Grant funds are distributed as 
grant funds by a State to an eligible entity as provided under the Act, 
and have not been expended by such entity, they shall remain with such 
entity for carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such 
entity consistent with program purposes.
    In addition, $105,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund for carrying out sections 40155, 40211 and 40241 
of Public Law 103-322.

                   promoting safe and stable families

    For carrying out section 430 of the Social Security Act, 
$295,000,000.

       payments to states for foster care and adoption assistance

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $4,312,300,000.
    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal 
year 2001, $1,538,000,000.

                        Administration on Aging

                        aging services programs

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended, and section 398 of the Public Health 
Service Act, $928,055,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
308(b)(1) of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended, the amounts 
available to each State for administration of the State plan under 
title III of such Act shall be reduced not more than 5 percent below 
the amount that was available to such State for such purpose for fiscal 
year 1995: Provided further, That in considering grant applications for 
nutrition services for elder Indian recipients, the Assistant Secretary 
shall provide maximum flexibility to applicants who seek to take into 
account subsistence, local customs, and other characteristics that are 
appropriate to the unique cultural, regional, and geographic needs of 
the American Indian, Alaska and Hawaiian Native communities to be 
served.

                        Office of the Secretary

                    general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six sedans, and for carrying 
out titles III, XVII, and XX of the Public Health Service Act, and the 
United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act, $193,203,000, 
together with $6,517,000, to be transferred and expended as authorized 
by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from the Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this heading for 
carrying out title XX of the Public Health Service Act, $10,569,000 
shall be for activities specified under section 2003(b)(2), of which 
$9,131,000 shall be for prevention service demonstration grants under 
section 510(b)(2) of title V of the Social Security Act, as amended, 
without application of the limitation of section 2010(c) of said title 
XX: Provided further, That $4,000,000 shall be available to the Office 
of the Surgeon General, within the Office of Public Health and Science, 
to prepare and disseminate the findings of the Surgeon General's report 
on youth violence, and to coordinate with other agencies throughout the 
Federal government, through the establishment of a Federal Coordinating 
Committee, activities to prevent youth violence.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $35,000,000.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$18,845,000, together with not to exceed $3,314,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical 
Insurance Trust Fund.

                            policy research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, research 
studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $15,000,000.

                 Public Health and Social Services Fund

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, disease and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $175,000,000: Provided, That this amount is distributed as 
follows: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $120,000,000, of 
which $30,000,000 shall be for the Health Alert Network; Office of the 
Secretary, $30,000,000, and Office of Emergency Preparedness, 
$25,000,000. In addition, for expenses necessary for the Global Health 
Initiative: $75,000,000: Provided, That this amount is distributed as 
follows: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $49,000,000, of 
which $35,000,000 shall be for international HIV/AIDS programs, 
$9,000,000 shall be for malaria programs, and $5,000,000 shall be for 
global micronutrient malnutrition programs; National Institutes of 
Health, $26,000,000, of which $15,000,000 shall be for international 
HIV/AIDS programs, $6,000,000 shall be for malaria programs, and 
$5,000,000 shall be for global micronutrient malnutrition programs. In 
addition, $150,000,000 for carrying out the Department's Year 2000 
computer conversion activities, $35,000,000 for minority AIDS 
prevention and treatment activities, $20,000,000 for buildings and 
facilities at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and 
$20,000,000 for the National Institutes of Health challenge grant 
program.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $37,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202. The Secretary shall make available through assignment not 
more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child 
survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the United 
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 203. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be used 
to implement section 399L(b) of the Public Health Service Act or 
section 1503 of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 
1993, Public Law 103-43.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an 
individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in 
excess of Executive Level III.
    Sec. 205. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the Public Health Service Act, 
except for funds specifically provided for in this Act, or for other 
taps and assessments made by any office located in the Department of 
Health and Human Services, prior to the Secretary's preparation and 
submission of a report to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
and of the House detailing the planned uses of such funds.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 206. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Health and Human Services in this Act may be transferred 
between appropriations, but no such appropriation (except the Public 
Health and Social Services Emergency Fund) shall be increased by more 
than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified at least fifteen 
days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 207. The Director of the National Institutes of Health, 
jointly with the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer 
up to 3 percent among institutes, centers, and divisions from the total 
amounts identified by these two Directors as funding for research 
pertaining to the human immunodeficiency virus: Provided, That the 
Congress is promptly notified of the transfer.
    Sec. 208. Of the amounts made available in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, the amount for research related to the 
human immunodeficiency virus, as jointly determined by the Director of 
NIH and the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, shall be made 
available to the ``Office of AIDS Research'' account. The Director of 
the Office of AIDS Research shall transfer from such account amounts 
necessary to carry out section 2353(d)(3) of the Public Health Service 
Act.
    Sec. 209. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the Public Health Service Act 
unless the applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it 
encourages family participation in the decision of minors to seek 
family planning services and that it provides counseling to minors on 
how to resist attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual 
activities.
    Sec. 210. None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare+Choice program if the Secretary denies participation in such 
program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider Sponsored 
Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that it will not 
provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals for 
abortions: Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees): Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare+Choice organization 
described in this section shall be responsible for informing enrollees 
where to obtain information about all Medicare covered services.
    Sec. 211. (a) Mental Health.--Section 1918(b) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-7(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to fiscal year 2000, the 
        amount of the allotment of a State under section 1911 shall not 
        be less than the amount the State received under section 1911 
        for fiscal year 1998.''.
    (b) Substance Abuse.--Section 1933(b) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-33(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to fiscal year 2000, the 
        amount of the allotment of a State under section 1921 shall not 
        be less than the amount the State received under section 1921 
        for fiscal year 1999 increased by 30.65 percent of the 
        percentage by which the amount allotted to the States for 
        fiscal year 2000 exceeds the amount allotted to the States for 
        fiscal year 1999.
            ``(2) Limitation.--
                            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (B), a State shall not receive an 
                        allotment under section 1921 for fiscal year 
                        2000 in an amount that is less than an amount 
                        equal to 0.375 percent of the amount 
                        appropriated under section 1935(a) for such 
                        fiscal year.
                            ``(B) Exception.--In applying subparagraph 
                        (A), the Secretary shall ensure that no State 
                        receives an increase in its allotment under 
                        section 1921 for fiscal year 2000 (as compared 
                        to the amount allotted to the State in the 
                        fiscal year 1999) that is in excess of an 
                        amount equal to 300 percent of the percentage 
                        by which the amount appropriated under section 
                        1935(a) for fiscal year 2000 exceeds the amount 
                        appropriated for fiscal year 1999.''.
    Sec. 212. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
exempt from any State law requiring notification or the reporting of 
child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 213. Extension of Certain Adjudication Provisions.--The 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
            (1) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``1997, 1998, 
                and 1999'' and inserting ``1997, 1998, 1999, and 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``October 1, 
                1999'' each place it appears and inserting ``October 1, 
                2000''; and
            (2) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in subsection 
        (b)(2), by striking ``September 30, 1999'' and inserting 
        ``September 30, 2000''.
    Sec. 214. None of the funds provided in this Act or in any other 
Act making appropriations for fiscal year 2000 may be used to 
administer or implement in Arizona or in the Kansas City, Missouri or 
in the Kansas City, Kansas area the Medicare Competitive Pricing 
Demonstration Project (operated by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services under authority granted in section 4011 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33)).
    Sec. 215. Of the funds appropriated for the National Institutes of 
Health for fiscal year 2000, $3,000,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until September 29, 2000.

                   TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

              Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

                            Education Reform

    For carrying out activities authorized by titles III and IV of the 
Goals 2000: Educate America Act, the School-to-Work Opportunities Act, 
and sections 3122, 3132, 3136, and 3141, parts B, C, and D of title 
III, and part I of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, $1,655,600,000, of which $459,500,000 shall be for the 
Goals 2000 Act, of which $114,875,000 shall become available on July 1, 
2000 and remain available through September 30, 2001, and $344,625,000 
shall become available on October 1, 2000 and remain available through 
September 30, 2001, and $55,000,000 for the School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act shall become available on July 1, 2000 and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, and of which $87,000,000 shall be 
for section 3122: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be obligated or expended to carry out section 
304(a)(2)(A) of the Goals 2000 Act, except that no more than $1,500,000 
may be used to carry out activities under section 314(a)(2) of that 
Act: Provided further, That section 315(a)(2) of the Goals 2000 Act 
shall not apply: Provided further, That up to one-half of 1 percent of 
the amount available under section 3132 shall be set aside for the 
outlying areas, to be distributed on the basis of their relative need 
as determined by the Secretary in accordance with the purposes of the 
program: Provided further, That if any State educational agency does 
not apply for a grant under section 3132, that State's allotment under 
section 3131 shall be reserved by the Secretary for grants to local 
educational agencies in that State that apply directly to the Secretary 
according to the terms and conditions published by the Secretary in the 
Federal Register.

                    education for the disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, and section 418A of the Higher Education Act, 
$8,750,986,000, of which $2,520,823,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2000, and shall remain available through September 30, 2001, and of 
which $6,204,763,000 shall become available on October 1, 2000 and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2001, for academic year 
2000-2001: Provided, That $6,894,000,000 shall be available for basic 
grants under section 1124: Provided further, That up to $3,500,000 of 
these funds shall be available to the Secretary on October 1, 1999, to 
obtain updated local-educational-agency-level census poverty data from 
the Bureau of the Census: Provided further, That $1,158,397,000 shall 
be available for concentration grants under section 1124A: Provided 
further, That $8,900,000 shall be available for evaluations under 
section 1501 and not more than $8,500,000 shall be reserved for section 
1308, of which not more than $3,000,000 shall be reserved for section 
1308(d): Provided further, That grant awards under sections 1124 and 
1124A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act shall be 
made to each State and local educational agency at no less than 100 
percent of the amount such State or local educational agency received 
under this authority for fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, grant awards under section 
1124A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act shall be 
made to those local educational agencies that received a Concentration 
Grant under the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1998, but 
are not eligible to receive such a grant for fiscal year 2000: Provided 
further, That each such local educational agency shall receive an 
amount equal to the Concentration Grant the agency received in fiscal 
year 1998, ratably reduced, if necessary, to ensure that these local 
educational agencies receive no greater share of their hold-harmless 
amounts than other local educational agencies: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall not take into account the hold harmless provisions 
in this section in determining State allocations under any other 
program administered by the Secretary in any fiscal year: Provided 
further, That $120,000,000 shall be available under section 1002(g)(2) 
to demonstrate effective approaches to comprehensive school reform to 
be allocated and expended in accordance with the instructions relating 
to this activity in the statement of the managers on the conference 
report accompanying Public Law 105-78 and in the statement of the 
managers on the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-277: 
Provided further, That in carrying out this initiative, the Secretary 
and the States shall support only approaches that show the most promise 
of enabling children served by title I to meet challenging State 
content standards and challenging State student performance standards 
based on reliable research and effective practices, and include an 
emphasis on basic academics and parental involvement.

                               impact aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $892,000,000, of which $725,000,000 
shall be for basic support payments under section 8003(b), $50,000,000 
shall be for payments for children with disabilities under section 
8003(d), $75,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
payments under section 8003(f), $7,000,000 shall be for construction 
under section 8007, $30,000,000 shall be for Federal property payments 
under section 8002 and $5,000,000 to remain available until expended 
shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008.

                      school improvement programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by titles 
II, IV, V-A and B, VI, IX, X, and XIII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA''); the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and part B of title 
VIII of the Higher Education Act; $2,886,634,000, of which 
$1,151,550,000 shall become available on July 1, 2000, and remain 
available through September 30, 2001, and of which $1,239,750,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2000 and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2001 for academic year 2000-2001: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated, $335,000,000 shall be for Eisenhower professional 
development State grants under title II-B and up to $750,000 shall be 
for an evaluation of comprehensive regional assistance centers under 
title XIII of ESEA: Provided further, That $1,200,000,000 shall be for 
teacher assistance to local educational agencies only if specifically 
authorized by subsequent legislation.

                           reading excellence

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Reading Excellence Act, 
$65,000,000, which shall become available on July 1, 2000 and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2001 and $195,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2000 and remain available through 
September 30, 2001.

                            indian education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title IX, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, as amended, $77,000,000.

      Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs

                   bilingual and immigrant education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, bilingual, 
foreign language and immigrant education activities authorized by parts 
A and C and section 7203 of title VII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, without regard to section 7103(b), $394,000,000: 
Provided, That State educational agencies may use all, or any part of, 
their part C allocation for competitive grants to local educational 
agencies.

        Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services

                           special education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 
$6,035,646,000, of which $3,834,587,000 shall become available for 
obligation on July 1, 2000, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2001, and of which $2,201,059,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2000 and shall remain available through September 30, 
2001, for academic year 2000-2001.

            rehabilitation services and disability research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, and 
the Helen Keller National Center Act, $2,692,872,000.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, as amended (20 U.S.C. 
101 et seq.), $10,100,000.

               national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et 
seq.), $48,151,000, of which $2,651,000 shall be for construction and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That from the total 
amount available, the Institute may at its discretion use funds for the 
endowment program as authorized under section 207.

                          gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), $85,500,000, of which $2,500,000 shall 
be for construction and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That from the total amount available, the University may at 
its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized under 
section 207.

                Office of Vocational and Adult Education

                     vocational and adult education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act, the Adult Education and 
Family Literacy Act, and title VIII-D of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, as amended, and Public Law 102-73, $1,676,750,000, of which 
$3,500,000 shall remain available until expended, and of which 
$1,658,150,000 shall become available on July 1, 2000 and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the amounts 
made available for the Perkins Act, $4,600,000 shall be for tribally 
controlled vocational institutions under section 117: Provided further, 
That $9,000,000 shall be for carrying out Section 118 of such act for 
all activities conducted by and through the National Occupational 
Information Coordinating Committee: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available for the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, 
$14,000,000 shall be for national leadership activities under section 
243 and $6,000,000 shall be for the National Institute for Literacy 
under section 242: Provided further, That $19,000,000 shall be for 
Youth Offender Grants, of which $5,000,000, which shall become 
available on July 1, 2000, and remain available through September 30, 
2001, shall be used in accordance with section 601 of Public Law 102-73 
as that section was in effect prior to enactment of Public Law 105-220.

                   Office of Postsecondary Education

                      student financial assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3 and 4 of part A, part C and part E 
of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 
$9,498,000,000, which shall remain available through September 30, 2001 
and of which $1,176,400,000 shall become available on October 1, 2000 
and remain available through September 30, 2001.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2000-2001 shall be $3,325: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 401(g) of the Act, if the Secretary determines, prior to 
publication of the payment schedule for such award year, that the 
amount included within this appropriation for Pell Grant awards in such 
award year, and any funds available from the fiscal year 1999 
appropriation for Pell Grant awards, are insufficient to satisfy fully 
all such awards for which students are eligible, as calculated under 
section 401(b) of the Act, the amount paid for each such award shall be 
reduced by either a fixed or variable percentage, or by a fixed dollar 
amount, as determined in accordance with a schedule of reductions 
established by the Secretary for this purpose.

             federal family education loan program account

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out guaranteed student 
loans authorized by title IV, part B, of the Higher Education Act, as 
amended, $48,000,000.

                            higher education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, section 121 
and titles II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the Higher Education 
Act of 1965, as amended, and the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961; $1,404,631,000, of which $12,000,000 for interest 
subsidies authorized by section 121 of the Higher Education Act, shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds available for 
part A, subpart 2 of title VII of the Higher Education Act shall be 
available to fund awards for academic year 2000-2001 for fellowships 
under part A, subpart 1 of title VII of said Act, under the terms and 
conditions of part A, subpart 1: Provided further, That not more than 
0.75 percent of the funds appropriated to carry out title II of the 
Higher Education Act may be used to conduct activities evaluating that 
program.

                           howard university

    For partial support of Howard University (20 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), 
$219,444,000, of which not less than $3,530,000 shall be for a matching 
endowment grant pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act (Public 
Law 98-480), of which $3,530,000 shall remain available until expended.

         college housing and academic facilities loans program

    For Federal administrative expenses authorized under section 121 of 
the Higher Education Act, $737,000 to carry out activities related to 
existing facility loans entered into under the Higher Education Act.

  historically black college and university capital financing program 
                                account

    The total amount of bonds insured pursuant to section 344 of title 
III, part D of the Higher Education Act shall not exceed $357,000,000, 
and the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974, of such bonds shall not exceed zero.
    For administrative expenses to carry out the Historically Black 
College and University Capital Financing Program entered into pursuant 
to title III, part D of the Higher Education Act, as amended, $207,000.

             Office of Educational Research and Improvement

            education research, statistics, and improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Educational Research, 
Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994, including part 
E; the National Education Statistics Act of 1994, including sections 
411 and 412; section 2102 of title II, and parts A, B, and K and 
section 10601 of title X, and part C of title XIII of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, and title VI of Public 
Law 103-227, $468,867,000: Provided, That $25,000,000 shall be 
available to demonstrate effective approaches to comprehensive school 
reform, to be allocated and expended in accordance with the 
instructions relating to this activity in the statement of managers on 
the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-78: Provided further, 
That the funds made available for comprehensive school reform shall 
become available on July 1, 2000, and remain available through 
September 30, 2001, and in carrying out this initiative, the Secretary 
and the States shall support only approaches that show the most promise 
of enabling children to meet challenging State content standards and 
challenging State student performance standards based on reliable 
research and effective practices, and include an emphasis on basic 
academics and parental involvement: Provided further, That $10,000,000 
of the funds provided for the national education research institutes 
shall be allocated notwithstanding sections 912(m)(1)(B)-(F) and 
931(c)(2)(B)-(C) of Public Law 103-227.

                        Departmental Management

                         program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of two passenger 
motor vehicles, $378,184,000.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $71,200,000.

                    office of the inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $34,000,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of 
equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial 
imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, 
except for a student requiring special education, to the school 
offering such special education, in order to comply with title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
indirect requirement of transportation of students includes the 
transportation of students to carry out a plan involving the 
reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of 
schools, or the clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing or clustering. The prohibition described in this 
section does not include the establishment of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303. No funds appropriated under this Act may be used to 
prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and 
meditation in the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations Committees of both Houses 
of Congress are notified at least fifteen days in advance of any 
transfer.

                            national testing

    Sec. 305. (a) In General.--Part C of the General Education 
Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 447. PROHIBITION ON FEDERALLY SPONSORED TESTING.

    ``(a) General Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
Federal law and except as provided in subsection (b), no funds provided 
to the Department of Education or to an applicable program, may be used 
to pilot test, field test, implement, administer or distribute in any 
way any federally sponsored national test in reading, mathematics, or 
any other subject that is not specifically and explicitly provided for 
in authorizing legislation enacted into law.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to the Third 
International Mathematics and Science Study or other international 
comparative assessments developed under the authority of section 
404(a)(6) of the National Education Statistics Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 
9003(a)(6) et seq.) and administered to only a representative sample of 
pupils in the United States and in foreign nations.''.
    (b) Authority of National Assessment Governing Board.--Subject to 
section 447 of the General Education Provisions Act, the exclusive 
authority over the direction and all policies and guidelines for 
developing voluntary national tests pursuant to contract RJ97153001 
previously entered into between the United States Department of 
Education and the American Institutes for Research and executed on 
August 15, 1997, and subsequently modified by the National Assessment 
Governing Board on February 11, 1998, shall continue to be vested in 
the National Assessment Governing Board established under section 412 
of the National Education Statistics Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 9011).

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES

             Corporation for National and Community Service

        domestic volunteer service programs, operating expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service to carry out the provisions of the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973, as amended, $293,261,000.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as 
authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall be 
available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 
2002, $350,000,000: Provided, That no funds made available to the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this Act shall be used to pay 
for receptions, parties, or similar forms of entertainment for 
Government officials or employees: Provided further, That none of the 
funds contained in this paragraph shall be available or used to aid or 
support any program or activity from which any person is excluded, or 
is denied benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, 
color, national origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That any 
grantee or entity that receives funds in this or any other Act shall be 
prohibited from selling, exchanging or otherwise transferring, either 
directly or indirectly, the names of current or former members or 
donors to any political organization: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this Act or any other Act shall be awarded to 
any grantee or entity that sells, exchanges or transfers, either 
directly or indirectly, the names of current or former members or 
donors to any political organization: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
appropriated for fiscal years 2000 or 2001 in the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services and Education and Related Agencies Acts of 
fiscal years 1998 and 1999, shall be awarded to any grantee or entity 
of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting that sells, exchanges or 
transfers, either directly or indirectly, the names of current or 
former members or donors to any political organization.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor Management 
Relations Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 171-180, 182-183), including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-
Management Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a); and for expenses 
necessary for the Service to carry out the functions vested in it by 
the Civil Service Reform Act, Public Law 95-454 (5 U.S.C. ch. 71), 
$36,834,000, including $1,500,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management 
Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a): Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, 
for special training activities and other conflict resolution services 
and technical assistance, including those provided to foreign 
governments and international organizations, and for arbitration 
services shall be credited to and merged with this account, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That fees for 
arbitration services shall be available only for education, training, 
and professional development of the agency workforce: Provided further, 
That the Director of the Service is authorized to accept and use on 
behalf of the United States gifts of services and real, personal, or 
other property in the aid of any projects or functions within the 
Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), $6,159,000.

         Office of Library Services: Grants and Administration

    For carrying out subtitle B of the Museum and Library Services Act, 
$154,500,000.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $7,015,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds.

        National Commission on Libraries and Information Science

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the National Commission on Libraries and 
Information Science, established by the Act of July 20, 1970 (Public 
Law 91-345, as amended), $1,300,000.

                     National Council on Disability

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
$2,400,000.

                     National Education Goals Panel

    For expenses necessary for the National Education Goals Panel, as 
authorized by title II, part A of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, 
$2,250,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, as amended (29 U.S.C. 141-167), and other laws, 
$210,193,000: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
available to organize or assist in organizing agricultural laborers or 
used in connection with investigations, hearings, directives, or orders 
concerning bargaining units composed of agricultural laborers as 
referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 5, 1935 (29 U.S.C. 152), 
and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, 
and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
203), and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 
95 percent of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes.

                        National Mediation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151-188), including emergency boards 
appointed by the President, $9,100,000: Provided, That unobligated 
balances at the end of fiscal year 1999 not needed for emergency boards 
shall remain available for other statutory purposes through September 
30, 2000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission (29 U.S.C. 661), $8,500,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                        federal windfall subsidy

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $175,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2000 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds $175,000,000: 
Provided, That the total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 
approximately equal amounts on the first day of each month in the 
fiscal year.

          federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.

                      limitation on administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board for 
administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act, $90,000,000, to be derived in such amounts 
as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement accounts and 
from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment insurance 
administration fund.

             limitation on the office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, not more than $5,400,000, to 
be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad 
unemployment insurance account: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available in any other paragraph of this Act may be transferred to the 
Office; used to carry out any such transfer; used to provide any office 
space, equipment, office supplies, communications facilities or 
services, maintenance services, or administrative services for the 
Office; used to pay any salary, benefit, or award for any personnel of 
the Office; used to pay any other operating expense of the Office; or 
used to reimburse the Office for any service provided, or expense 
incurred, by the Office.

                     Social Security Administration

                payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the 
Federal Disability Insurance trust funds, as provided under sections 
201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, $20,764,000.

               special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, $383,638,000, to remain available until expended.
    For making, after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977, for costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such 
amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 for the first quarter of fiscal year 
2001, $124,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  supplemental security income program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$21,553,085,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury.
    From funds provided under the previous paragraph, not less than 
$100,000,000 shall be available for payment to the Social Security 
trust funds for administrative expenses for conducting continuing 
disability reviews.
    In addition, $200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001, for payment to the Social Security trust funds for administrative 
expenses for continuing disability reviews as authorized by section 103 
of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of Public Law 105-33. The term 
``continuing disability reviews'' means reviews and redeterminations as 
defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act, as 
amended.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2001, $9,890,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $6,188,871,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That not 
less than $1,800,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory Board: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances at the end of fiscal year 
2000 not needed for fiscal year 2000 shall remain available until 
expended to invest in the Social Security Administration computing 
network, including related equipment and non-payroll administrative 
expenses associated solely with this network: Provided further, That 
reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for expenditures 
for official time for employees of the Social Security Administration 
pursuant to section 7131 of title 5, United States Code, and for 
facilities or support services for labor organizations pursuant to 
policies, regulations, or procedures referred to in section 7135(b) of 
such title shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, with 
interest, from amounts in the general fund not otherwise appropriated, 
as soon as possible after such expenditures are made.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, not less than 
$200,000,000 shall be available for conducting continuing disability 
reviews.
    In addition to funding already available under this heading, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $405,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001, for continuing disability reviews 
as authorized by section 103 of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of 
Public Law 105-33. The term ``continuing disability reviews'' means 
reviews and redeterminations as defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of 
the Social Security Act as amended.
    In addition, $80,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such section 1616(d) or 212(b)(3) in 
fiscal year 2000 exceed $80,000,000, the amounts shall be available in 
fiscal year 2001 only to the extent provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    From amounts previously made available under this heading for a 
state-of-the-art computing network, not to exceed $100,000,000 shall be 
available for necessary expenses under this heading, subject to the 
same terms and conditions.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $15,000,000, together with not to exceed $51,000,000, to be 
transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the 
Social Security Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available: Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate.

                    United States Institute of Peace

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace as 
authorized in the United States Institute of Peace Act, $13,000,000.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act: Provided, That such transferred balances are used 
for the same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they 
were originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for 
the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State 
legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or 
any State legislature.
    Sec. 504. The Secretaries of Labor and Education are each 
authorized to make available not to exceed $15,000 from funds available 
for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, respectively, for 
official reception and representation expenses; the Director of the 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from the funds available for ``Salaries and expenses, 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service''; and the Chairman of the 
National Mediation Board is authorized to make available for official 
reception and representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from funds 
available for ``Salaries and expenses, National Mediation Board''.
    Sec. 505. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be used to carry out any program of 
distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection 
of any illegal drug unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
determines that such programs are effective in preventing the spread of 
HIV and do not encourage the use of illegal drugs.
    Sec. 506. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 507. When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state: (1) the percentage of the total costs of 
the program or project which will be financed with Federal money; (2) 
the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or program; and (3) 
percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or 
program that will be financed by nongovernmental sources.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds appropriated under this Act, and 
none of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated 
under this Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated under this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 509. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
        life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
        the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a physician, 
        place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    Sec. 510. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
        purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury 
        or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in 
        utero under 45 CFR 46.208(a)(2) and section 498(b) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 511. (a) Limitation on Use of Funds for Promotion of 
Legalization of Controlled Substances.--None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used for any activity that promotes the 
legalization of any drug or other substance included in schedule I of 
the schedules of controlled substances established by section 202 of 
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812).
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply 
when there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage 
to the use of such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored 
clinical trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
        States and is subject to the requirement in section 4212(d) of 
        title 38, United States Code, regarding submission of an annual 
        report to the Secretary of Labor concerning employment of 
        certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
        that section for the most recent year for which such 
        requirement was applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 513. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(b)) providing for, or providing 
for the assignment of, a unique health identifier for an individual 
(except in an individual's capacity as an employer or a health care 
provider), until legislation is enacted specifically approving the 
standard.
    Sec. 514. Section 520(c)(2)(D) of the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1997, as amended, is further amended by striking ``December 31, 
1997'' and inserting ``December 31, 1999''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000''.
                                                       Calendar No. 290

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1650

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 28, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar