[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1426 Considered and Passed Senate (CPS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 1426

 Making emergency supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2001 for 
additional disaster assistance, for anti-terrorism initiatives, and for 
assistance in the recovery from the tragedy that occurred on September 
                   11, 2001, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 14, 2001

 Mr. Daschle (for himself and Mr. Lott) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice, considered, read the third time, and passed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making emergency supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2001 for 
additional disaster assistance, for anti-terrorism initiatives, and for 
assistance in the recovery from the tragedy that occurred on September 
                   11, 2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to provide emergency supplemental appropriations for 
fiscal year 2001, namely:

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                        Emergency Response Fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For emergency expenses to respond to the terrorist attacks on the 
United States that occurred on September 11, 2001, to provide 
assistance to the victims of the attacks, and to deal with other 
consequences of the attacks, $40,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, including for the costs of (1) providing Federal, State, and 
local preparedness for mitigating and responding to the attacks, (2) 
providing support to counter, investigate, or prosecute domestic or 
international terrorism, (3) providing increased transportation 
security, (4) repairing public facilities and transportation systems 
damaged by the attacks, and (5) supporting national security; Provided, 
That these funds may be transferred to any authorized Federal 
Government activity to meet the purposes of this Act: Provided further, 
That the Congress designates the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That 
$40,000,000,000 shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request, that includes designation of the $40,000,000,000 as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the President shall consult with the 
chairmen and ranking minority members of the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to the transfer of these funds: Provided further, 
That of the $40,000,000,000 made available herein, $10,000,000,000 
shall not be available for transfer to any Department or Agency until 
15 days after the Director of the Office of Management and Budget has 
submitted to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a 
proposed allocation and plan for use of the funds for that Department 
or Agency; $20,000,000,000 may be obligated only when enacted in a 
subsequent emergency appropriations bill, in response to the terrorist 
acts on September 11, 2001: Provided further, That the President shall 
transmit an amended budget request proposing an allocation of funds: 
Provided further, That not less than one-half of the $40,000,000,000 
shall be for disaster recovery activities and assistance related to the 
terrorist acts in New York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania on September 11, 
2001, as authorized by law: Provided further, That the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the use of these funds, beginning not 
later than January 2, 2002: Provided further, That the President shall 
submit to the Congress as soon as practicable detailed requests to meet 
any further funding requirements for the purposes specified in this 
Act.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 1. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed 
to be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 
504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).
    Sec. 2. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, may be obligated and expended 
notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, section 313 of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, fiscal years 1994 and 1995, and 
section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.
    This Act may be cited as the ``2001 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks 
on the United States''.
                                 <all>