[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1234 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 159
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1234

                          [Report No. 106-81]

  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
                            other purposes.


Rule___________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 17, 1999

   Mr. McConnell, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

               TITLE I--EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                export-import bank of the united states

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon State as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

                         subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $785,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2003: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until 2018 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 2000, 2001, 
2002 and 2003: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or any prior Act appropriating funds for foreign operations, 
export financing, or related programs for tied-aid credits or grants 
may be used for any other purpose except through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated by this paragraph are made available 
notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of the Export Import Bank Act of 1945, 
in connection with the purchase or lease of any product by any East 
European country, any Baltic State or any agency or national thereof.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs (to be computed on an accrual basis), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
$55,000,000: Provided, That necessary expenses (including special 
services performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other 
personal services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the 
Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other 
assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank in satisfaction of moneys 
owed the Export-Import Bank, or the investigation or appraisal of any 
property, or the evaluation of the legal or technical aspects of any 
transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance 
commitment has been made, shall be considered nonadministrative 
expenses for the purposes of this heading: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement 
Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2000.

                overseas private investment corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for 
official reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed 
$35,000) shall not exceed $31,500,000: Provided further, That project-
specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect costs 
incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs associated with 
services provided to specific investors or potential investors pursuant 
to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be 
considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $24,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
noncredit account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 2000 and 2001: 
Provided further, That such sums shall remain available through fiscal 
year 2008 for the disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated 
in fiscal year 2000, and through fiscal year 2009 for the disbursement 
of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 2001: Provided 
further, That in addition, such sums as may be necessary for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit program may be derived 
from amounts available for administrative expenses to carry out the 
credit and insurance programs in the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $43,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the Trade and Development 
Agency may receive reimbursements from corporations and other entities 
for the costs of grants for feasibility studies and other project 
planning services, to be deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
account and to be available for obligation until September 30, 2001, 
for necessary expenses under this paragraph: Provided further, That 
such reimbursements shall not cover, or be allocated against, direct or 
indirect administrative costs of the agency.

                TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 1999, unless 
otherwise specified herein, as follows:

                  agency for international development

                         development assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106, section 301, and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, title V of the International Security and 
Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533) and the 
provisions of section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, 
$1,928,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated under this heading, funds may be made 
available for the Inter-American Foundation (IAF) but shall be provided 
only after the General Accounting Office has completed its current IAF 
civil and criminal investigations and reported to the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That funds made available for the IAF 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, up to $12,500,000 may be made 
available for the African Development Foundation and shall be 
apportioned directly to that agency: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $225,000,000 shall 
be made available for programs for the prevention, treatment, and 
control of, and research on, infectious diseases in developing 
countries, of which amount not less than $150,000,000 shall be made 
available for such programs for HIV/AIDS including not less than 
$5,000,000 which shall be made available to support a United States 
Government strategy to develop microbicides as a means for combating 
HIV/AIDS: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, not less than $50,000,000 should be made available for 
activities addressing the health and nutrition needs of pregnant women 
and mothers: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, not less than $105,000,000 shall be made available for 
the United Nations Children's Fund: Provided further, That not less 
than $425,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
made available to carry out the provisions of section 104(b) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated balances from 
prior appropriations may be made available to any organization or 
program which, as determined by the President of the United States, 
supports or participates in the management of a program of coercive 
abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading may be used to pay for the 
performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to motivate 
or coerce any person to practice abortions; and that in order to reduce 
reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be available 
only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly 
or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range 
of family planning methods and services: Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, 
all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this or any other Act 
authorizing or appropriating funds for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates 
to family planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
provision, consistent with local law, of information or counseling 
about all pregnancy options: Provided further, That nothing in this 
paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, of the funds appropriated 
under this heading in this Act, and of the unobligated balances of 
funds previously appropriated under this heading, $2,500,000 shall be 
transferred to ``International Organizations and Programs'' for a 
contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
(IFAD): Provided further, That of the aggregate amount of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and the Support for Eastern European Democracy Act of 1989, 
$305,000,000 should be made available for agriculture and rural 
development programs including international agriculture research 
programs: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading that are made available for assistance programs for displaced 
and orphaned children and victims of war, not to exceed $25,000, in 
addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, may be used to 
monitor and provide oversight of such programs: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading not less than $250,000 
shall be available for the International Law Institute: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $15,000,000 shall be made available for the American Schools and 
Hospitals Abroad Program: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading not less than $500,000 shall be made 
available for support of the United States Telecommunications Training 
Institute: Provided further, That, of the funds appropriated under this 
heading and ``New Independent States of the former Soviet Union'', not 
less than $7,000,000 shall be made available for Carelift International 
to collect and provide medical supplies, equipment and training: 
Provided further, That, of the funds appropriated by this Act for the 
Microenterprise Initiative (including any local currencies made 
available for the purposes of the Initiative), not less than one-half 
shall be made available for programs providing loans of less than $300 
to very poor people, particularly women, or for institutional support 
of organizations primarily engaged in making such loans: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
amounts made available under Title II of this Act, $10,000,000 shall be 
made available for political, economic, humanitarian, and associated 
support activities for Iraqi opposition groups designated under the 
Iraqi Liberation Act (Public Law 105-338): Provided further, That not 
less than 15 days prior to the obligation of these funds, the Secretary 
shall inform the Committees on Appropriations of the purpose and amount 
of the proposed obligation of funds under this provision.

                                 cyprus

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
shall be made available for Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, 
administrative support of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, 
and measures aimed at reunification of the island and designed to 
reduce tensions and promote peace and cooperation between the two 
communities on Cyprus.

                                 burma

    Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $6,500,000 shall 
be made available to support democracy activities in Burma, democracy 
and humanitarian activities along the Burma-Thailand border, and for 
Burmese student groups and other organizations located outside Burma: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this heading, not less 
than $800,000 shall be made available for newspapers, media, 
publications and related training to promote democracy in and related 
to Burma: Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading shall be provided subject to consultation and guidelines 
provided by the leadership of the Burmese government elected in 1990: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Burma-related 
activities under this heading may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law: Provided further, That the provision of such 
funds shall be made available subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                                cambodia

    None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
for activities or programs for the Central Government of Cambodia until 
the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that Cambodia has held free and fair elections in which 
all political candidates were permitted freedom of speech, assembly and 
equal access to the media, that the Central Election Commission was 
comprised of representatives from all parties, and that the Government 
of Cambodia has established an international panel of jurists which is 
proceeding consistent with international law in the prosecution of Ta 
Mok, Khieu Sampan, Nuon Chea, Ieng Sary, Ke Pauk, and Kang Khev Leu 
(Duch): Provided, That the restriction on funds made available under 
this paragraph shall not apply to demining or other humanitarian 
programs.

                               indonesia

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $70,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Indonesia.

                           conservation fund

    Of the funds made available under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $500,000 shall be 
made available for the Charles Darwin Research Station and the Charles 
Darwin Foundation to support research, conservation, training and other 
activities necessary to protect the Province of the Galapagos Islands, 
Ecuador.

                          conflict resolution

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States'', $1,000,000 shall be made available to 
support conflict resolution programs involving teenagers of different 
ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds from the Middle East and 
other regions of conflict.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $175,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

         micro and small enterprise development program account

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,500,000, as 
authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined in section 502 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That section 
108(i)(2)(C) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read 
as follows: ``(C) No guarantee of any loan may guarantee more than 50 
percent of the principal amount of any such loan, except guarantees of 
loans in support of microenterprise activites may guarantee up to 70 
percent of the principal amount of any such loan.''. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out programs under this heading, 
$500,000, all of which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading shall remain available until September 30, 2001.

             urban and environmental credit program account

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of guaranteed loans authorized by sections 221 and 222 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,500,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize 
loan principal, 100 per centum of which shall be guaranteed, pursuant 
to the authority of such sections. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out guaranteed loan programs, $4,000,000, all of 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development.

                  private and voluntary organizations

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 per centum of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development may, on a case-by-case basis, 
waive the restriction contained in this paragraph, after taking into 
account the effectiveness of the overseas development activities of the 
organization, its level of volunteer support, its financial viability 
and stability, and the degree of its dependence for its financial 
support on the agency.
    Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under title II of 
this Act should be made available to private and voluntary 
organizations at a level which is at least equivalent to the level 
provided in fiscal year 1995. Such private and voluntary organizations 
shall include those which operate on a not-for-profit basis, receive 
contributions from private sources, receive voluntary support from the 
public and are deemed to be among the most cost-effective and 
successful providers of development assistance.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $43,837,000.

     operating expenses of the agency for international development

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$495,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

 operating expenses of the agency for international development office 
                          of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001, which sum 
shall be available for the Office of the Inspector General of the 
Agency for International Development.

                  Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,195,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $960,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1999, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $735,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance shall be 
provided with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant 
economic reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in 
previous fiscal years, and of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be 
provided as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That 
in exercising the authority to provide cash transfer assistance for 
Israel, the President shall ensure that the level of such assistance 
does not cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary 
exports from the United States to such country: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$150,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Jordan: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $11,000,000 may be used to support victims of and programs 
related to the Holocaust: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading may be made available to the Korean 
Peninsula Energy Development Organization.

          assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $535,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2001, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for assistance and for related programs for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading: not less than $150,000,000 shall be made available 
for assistance for Kosova of which $20,000,000 shall be available for 
training and equipping a Kosova security force; not less than 
$85,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Albania; not 
less than $60,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
Romania; not less than $55,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Macedonia; not less than $45,000,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for Bulgaria; not less than $35,000,000 shall 
be available for assistance for Montenegro: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading and the headings 
``International Narcotics and Law Enforcement'' and ``Economic Support 
Fund'', not to exceed $130,000,000 shall be made available for Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior 
appropriations Acts that are or have been made available for an 
Enterprise Fund may be deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing 
accounts prior to the Fund's disbursement of such funds for program 
purposes. The Fund may retain for such program purposes any interest 
earned on such deposits without returning such interest to the Treasury 
of the United States and without further appropriation by the Congress. 
Funds made available for Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the 
minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities.
    (c) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.
    (d) With regard to funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this heading for the economic revitalization program in Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, and local currencies generated by such funds 
(including the conversion of funds appropriated under this heading into 
currency used by Bosnia and Herzegovina as local currency and local 
currency returned or repaid under such program)--
            (1) the Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans 
        prior to the obligation and expenditure of funds for such 
        purposes, and prior to the use of funds that have been returned 
        or repaid to any lending facility or grantee; and
            (2) the provisions of section 533 of this Act shall apply.

  assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 
11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM 
Support Act, for assistance for the New Independent States of the 
former Soviet Union and for related programs, $780,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the provisions of 
such chapter shall apply to funds appropriated by this paragraph: 
Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary may be transferred 
to the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the cost of any 
financing under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 for activities for 
the New Independent States.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$210,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine: 
Provided, That 50 percent of the amount made available in this 
subsection, exclusive of funds made available for nuclear safety, law 
enforcement reforms or the business incubator program, shall be 
withheld from obligation and expenditure until the Secretary of State 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that Ukraine has undertaken 
significant economic reforms additional to those achieved in fiscal 
year 1999: Provided further, That the report in the previous proviso 
shall be provided 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available for Ukraine, not 
less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for nuclear reactor 
safety programs: Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
Ukraine, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available to support 
the expansion of the technology business incubator program to include 
new cities.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$95,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Georgia: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this subsection, not 
less than $8,000,000 shall be made available for judicial reform and 
law enforcement training.
    (d) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$90,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Armenia.
    (e) Funds made available under this Act or any other Act may not be 
provided for assistance to the Government of Azerbaijan until the 
President determines, and so reports to the Congress, that the 
Government of Azerbaijan is taking demonstrable steps to cease all 
blockades and other offensive uses of force against Armenia and 
Nagorno-Karabakh: Provided, That the restriction of this subsection and 
section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
        ``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997'';
            (2) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (3) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (4) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.);
            (5) any activity carried out by a member of the Foreign 
        Commercial Service while acting within his or her official 
        capacity; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.
    (f) Of the funds made available under this heading for nuclear 
safety activities, not to exceed 9 percent of the funds provided for 
any single project may be used to pay for management costs incurred by 
a United States national lab in administering said project.
    (g) Of the funds appropriated under title II of this Act, including 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $12,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Mongolia: Provided, That funds 
made available for assistance for Mongolia may be made available in 
accordance with the purposes and utilizing the authorities provided in 
chapter 11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (h) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for Russia unless the President determines and certifies in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
Russia has terminated implementation of arrangements to provide Iran 
with technical expertise, training, technology, or equipment necessary 
to develop a nuclear reactor, related nuclear research facilities or 
programs, or ballistic missile capability.
    (i) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for the Government of Russia, until the Secretary of State 
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that: (1) Russian armed 
and peacekeeping forces deployed in Kosova have not established a 
separate zone of operational control; and (2) any Russian armed and 
peacekeeping forces deployed in Kosova are fully integrated under NATO 
unified command and control arrangements.

                           Independent Agency

                              peace corps

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $220,000,000, including the purchase of not 
to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2001.

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $215,000,000: Provided, That of this amount not 
less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for Law Enforcement 
Training and Demand Reduction: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, in addition to any funds previously 
appropriated for the International Law Enforcement Academy for the 
Western Hemisphere, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available to 
establish and operate the International Law Enforcement Academy for the 
Western Hemisphere at the deBremmond Training Center in Roswell, New 
Mexico.

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross, assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the International Organization for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $610,000,000: Provided, That not more than $13,500,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses: Provided further, That not less 
than $60,000,000 shall be made available for refugees from the former 
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and other refugees resettling in 
Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $20,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 
2(c)(2) of the Act which would limit the amount of funds which could be 
appropriated for this purpose.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and 
related programs and activities, $175,000,000, to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support 
Act for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
activities implemented through nongovernmental and international 
organizations, section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a 
voluntary contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
and a voluntary contribution to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 
Organization (KEDO): Provided, That of this amount not to exceed 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be made available 
for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation and disarmament: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for countries other than the 
New Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, $35,000,000 should be made available for demining, 
clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available for demining and related 
activities, not to exceed $500,000, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, may be used for administrative expenses 
related to the operation and management of the demining program: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading up 
to $40,000,000 may be made available for the International Atomic 
Energy Agency only if the Secretary of State determines (and so reports 
to the Congress) that Israel is not being denied its right to 
participate in the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $40,000,000 
may be made available to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 
Organization only for the administrative expenses and heavy fuel oil 
costs associated with the Agreed Framework: Provided further, That such 
funds may be obligated to KEDO only if, thirty days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that: (1)(A) the parties to the Agreed Framework are taking steps to 
assure that progress is made on the implementation of the January 1, 
1992, Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula 
and the implementation of the North-South dialogue, and (B) North Korea 
is complying with all provisions of the Agreed Framework between North 
Korea and the United States and with the Confidential Minute; (2) North 
Korea is cooperating fully in the canning and safe storage of all spent 
fuel from its graphite-moderated nuclear reactors; (3) North Korea has 
not significantly diverted assistance provided by the United States for 
purposes for which it was not intended; (4) North Korea is not actively 
pursuing the acquisition or development of a nuclear capability (other 
than the light-water reactors provided for by the 1994 Agreed Framework 
Between the United States and North Korea); and (5) North Korea is not 
providing ballistic missiles or ballistic missile technology to a 
country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined 
is a terrorist government for the purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms 
Export Control Act or any other comparable provision of law: Provided 
further, That the President may waive the certification requirements of 
the preceding proviso if the President determines that it is vital to 
the national security interests of the United States: Provided further, 
That no funds may be obligated for KEDO until 30 days after submission 
to Congress of the waiver permitted under the preceding proviso: 
Provided further, That the obligation of any funds for KEDO shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report (to 
be submitted with the annual presentation for appropriations) providing 
a full and detailed accounting of the fiscal year request for the 
United States contribution to KEDO, the expected operating budget of 
the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, to include unpaid 
debt, proposed annual costs associated with heavy fuel oil purchases, 
and the amount of funds pledged by other donor nations and 
organizations to support KEDO activities on a per country basis, and 
other related activities: Provided further, That the Director of 
Central Intelligence will provide for review and consideration by the 
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, House International 
Relations Committee, House National Security Committee, Senate 
Appropriations Committee, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee 
all relevant intelligence bearing on North Korea's compliance with the 
provisions of this proviso: Provided further, That such provision shall 
occur not less than 45 days prior to the President's certification as 
provided for under this heading: Provided further, That for the 
purposes of this heading, the term intelligence includes National 
Intelligence Estimates, Intelligence Memoranda, Findings and other 
intelligence reports based on multiple sources or including the 
assessment of more than one member of the Intelligence Community.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 129 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, relating to the Department of the Treasury 
technical assistance program, $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available notwithstanding any other provision 
of law.

                           debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of modifying direct loans and loan guarantees, as the 
President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the International Affairs 
Budget Function 150, including the cost of selling, reducing, or 
canceling amounts, through debt buybacks and swaps, owed to the United 
States as a result of concessional loans made to eligible Latin 
American and Caribbean countries, pursuant to part IV of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, and of modifying concessional credit agreements 
with least developed countries, as authorized under section 411 of the 
Agriculture Trade and Assistance Act of 1954 as amended notwithstanding 
during fiscal years 1999 and 2000 any limitation of subsection (e) of 
that section to the extent that such limitations applies to sub-Saharan 
African countries; and concessional loans, guarantees and credit 
agreements with any country in sub-Saharan Africa, as authorized under 
section 572 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related 
Programs Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-461); $43,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $50,000,000: Provided, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and training may be 
provided under this heading may include civilians who are not members 
of a government whose participation would contribute to improved civil-
military relations, civilian control of the military, or respect for 
human rights: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading for grant financed military education and training for 
Guatemala may only be available for expanded international military 
education and training.

                   foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,410,000,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,920,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within 
thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1999, whichever 
is later: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of 
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and 
the United States, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than 26.5 percent shall be available for the procurement in 
Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $75,000,000 shall be available for assistance 
for Jordan: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Tunisia: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2000, 
the President is authorized to, and shall, direct the draw-downs of 
defense articles from the stocks of the Department of Defense, defense 
services of the Department of Defense, and military education and 
training of an aggregate value of not less than $6,000,000 under the 
authority of this proviso for Tunisia for the purposes of part II of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this paragraph shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding 
any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act: Provided 
further, That funds made available under this paragraph shall be 
obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of 
title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a).
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: 
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 515 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance for 
Sudan and Liberia: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
for demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, and may include activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations: Provided further, That 
none of the funds under this heading shall be available for assistance 
for Guatemala: Provided further, That only those countries for which 
assistance was justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing 
Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 congressional presentation for 
security assistance programs may utilize funds made available under 
this heading for procurement of defense articles, defense services or 
design and construction services that are not sold by the United States 
Government under the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That, 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, funds made available under this heading for the cost of 
direct loans may also be used to supplement the funds available under 
this heading for grants, and funds made available under this heading 
for grants may also be used to supplement the funds available under 
this heading for the cost of direct loans: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be expended at the minimum rate 
necessary to make timely payment for defense articles and services: 
Provided further, That not more than $30,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be obligated for necessary 
expenses, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only for use outside of the United States, for the general 
costs of administering military assistance and sales: Provided further, 
That not more than $330,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to section 
21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act may be obligated for 
expenses incurred by the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2000 
pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export Control Act, except that 
this limitation may be exceeded only through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $80,000,000: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

               TITLE IV--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  funds appropriated to the president

                  international financial institutions

       the international bank for reconstruction and development

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $785,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            contribution to the global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Global Environment Facility, $25,000,000 to remain 
available until expended, for contributions previously due.

      contribution to the multilateral investment guarantee agency

    For payment to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $10,000,000 for the United States paid-in 
share of the increase in capital stock, to remain available until 
expended.

                     limitation on callable capital

    The United States Governor of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency may subscribe without fiscal year limitation for the callable 
capital portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an 
amount not to exceed $50,000,000.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, for the United States share of the paid-in share 
portion of the increase in capital stock, $25,610,667.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $1,503,718,910.

               contribution to the asian development bank

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $13,728,263, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $672,745,205.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asia Development Bank Act, as amended, $50,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for contributions previously due.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $5,100,000 for the United States paid in share of the 
increase in capital stock, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $35,778,717, for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, to 
remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $123,237,803.

                International Organizations and Programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $170,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for the 
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA): Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading that 
are made available to UNFPA shall be made available for activities in 
the People's Republic of China: Provided further, That with respect to 
any funds appropriated under this heading that are made available to 
UNFPA, UNFPA shall be required to maintain such funds in a separate 
account and not commingle them with any other funds: Provided further, 
That not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available to the World Food 
Program: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available to the Korean Peninsula Energy 
Development Organization (KEDO) or the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA).

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          obligations of funds

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 percent of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.

     prohibition of bilateral funding for international financial 
                              institutions

    Sec. 502. Notwithstanding section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, none of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be 
used to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.

                    limitation on residence expenses

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

                         limitation on expenses

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal 
year.

               limitation on representational allowances

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned 
foreign currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available by this Act for general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available 
for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances.

                 prohibition on financing nuclear goods

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``Nonproliferation, Antiterrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'') pursuant to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, except for purposes of nuclear 
safety, to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or 
technology.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, 
North Korea, Iran, Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall include 
direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-Import 
Bank or its agents.

                             military coups

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance to any country whose duly elected Head 
of Government is deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That 
assistance may be resumed to such country if the President determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the 
termination of assistance a democratically elected government has taken 
office.

                       transfers between accounts

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in this 
Act, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                  deobligation/reobligation authority

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under title II of this Act are, if deobligated, hereby 
continued available for the same period as the respective 
appropriations under such headings or until September 30, 2000, 
whichever is later, and for the same general purpose, and for countries 
within the same region as originally obligated: Provided, That the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of the Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of the reobligation of such funds in accordance 
with regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 
23 of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under 
this Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be 
used in fiscal year 2000.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1, 8, and 11 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, and funds provided under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', shall remain available until 
expended if such funds are initially obligated before the expiration of 
their respective periods of availability contained in this Act: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, any funds made available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I 
and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which 
are allocated or obligated for cash disbursements in order to address 
balance of payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the report required by 
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate 
for each country, to the extent known at the time of submission of such 
report, those funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of 
payment and economic policy reform purposes.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United States 
of principal or interest on any loan made to such country by the United 
States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated under 
this Act: Provided, That this section and section 620(q) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds made available for any 
narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru authorized 
by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act.

                           commerce and trade

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the 
commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the 
resulting productive capacity is expected to become operative and if 
the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers 
of the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the 
judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and 
employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar or competing commodity, 
and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact in the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        American producers.

                          surplus commodities

    Sec. 514. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the International Development Association, the 
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the North American Development Bank, 
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
Development Bank, and the African Development Fund to use the voice and 
vote of the United States to oppose any assistance by these 
institutions, using funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, for the production or extraction of any commodity or mineral 
for export, if it is in surplus on world markets and if the assistance 
will cause substantial injury to United States producers of the same, 
similar, or competing commodity.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 515. For the purpose of providing the Executive Branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Development Assistance'', ``Debt 
restructuring'', ``International organizations and programs'', ``Trade 
and Development Agency'', ``International narcotics control and law 
enforcement'', ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Peacekeeping operations'', 
``Operating expenses of the Agency for International Development'', 
``Operating expenses of the Agency for International Development Office 
of Inspector General'', ``Nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining 
and related programs'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
``International military education and training'', the Inter-American 
Foundation, the African Development Foundation, ``Peace Corps'', 
``Migration and refugee assistance'', shall be available for obligation 
for activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of the amount 
justified to the Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of 
these specific headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are previously notified fifteen days in advance: 
Provided, That the President shall not enter into any commitment of 
funds appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other than 
conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified 
to Congress or 20 per centum in excess of the quantities justified to 
Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified fifteen 
days in advance of such commitment: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or 
project under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
of less than 10 per centum of the amount previously justified to the 
Congress for obligation for such activity, program, or project for the 
current fiscal year: Provided further, That the requirements of this 
section or any similar provision of this Act or any other Act, 
including any prior Act requiring notification in accordance with the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
may be waived if failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to 
human health or welfare: Provided further, That in case of any such 
waiver, notification to the Congress, or the appropriate congressional 
committees, shall be provided as early as practicable, but in no event 
later than three days after taking the action to which such 
notification requirement was applicable, in the context of the 
circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any 
notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 516. Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2001.

                  stingers in the persian gulf region

    Sec. 517. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms 
Export Control Act or chapter 2 of Part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to lobby for or against 
abortion.

                      funding for family planning

    Sec. 519. In determining eligibility for assistance from funds 
appropriated to carry out section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, non-governmental and multilateral organizations shall not be 
subjected to requirements more restrictive than the requirements 
applicable to foreign governments for such assistance.

                           el salvador report

    Sec. 520. Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Attorney General shall provide a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations describing in detail the circumstances under which 
individuals involved in the December 2, 1980 murders or cover-up of the 
murders of four American churchwomen in El Salvador obtained residence 
in the United States.

                   special notification requirements

    Sec. 521. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, India, Haiti, Liberia, Pakistan, 
Serbia, Sudan, or the Democratic Republic of Congo except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committee on 
Appropriations.

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 522. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the Appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all Appropriations and Authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as (1) 
justified to the Congress, or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within thirty days of enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

               child survival, aids, and other activities

    Sec. 523. Up to $10,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for family planning, health, child survival, 
environment, basic education and AIDS, may be used to reimburse United 
States Government agencies, agencies of State governments, institutions 
of higher learning, and private and voluntary organizations for the 
full cost of individuals (including for the personal services of such 
individuals) detailed or assigned to, or contracted by, as the case may 
be, the Agency for International Development for the purpose of 
carrying out family planning activities, child survival, environment, 
and basic education and health activities, including activities 
relating to research on, and the prevention, treatment and control of 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome or other diseases in developing 
countries: Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
available for child survival activities or disease programs including 
activities relating to research on, and the treatment and control of, 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome may be made available 
notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts assistance to 
foreign countries: Provided further, That funds appropriated by this 
Act that are made available for family planning activities may be made 
available notwithstanding section 512 of this Act and section 620(q) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

       prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 524. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Iran, Syria, North 
Korea, or the People's Republic of China, unless the President of the 
United States certifies that the withholding of these funds is contrary 
to the national interest of the United States.

               designation of serbia as a terrorist state

    Sec. 525. (a) Human Rights Violations.--
            (1) Congressional determination.--Congress determines that 
        the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is engaged 
        in a consistent pattern of gross violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights.
            (2) Full enforcement of sanctions.--All provisions of law 
        that impose sanctions against a country whose government is 
        engaged in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights shall be fully enforced 
        against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (other than 
        Montenegro and Kosova).
    (b) Support for Terrorism.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Congressional determination.--Congress 
                determines that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
                (other than Montenegro and Kosova) is a country which 
                has repeatedly engaged in acts of terrorism, a country 
                which grants sanctuary from prosecution to individuals 
                or groups which have committed an act of terrorism, and 
                a country which otherwise supports terrorism.
                    (B) Full enforcement of sanctions.--The provisions 
                of law specified in paragraph (2) and all other 
                provisions of law that impose sanctions against a 
                country which has repeatedly provided support for acts 
                of terrorists, which grants sanctuary from prosecution 
                to an individual or group which grants sanctuary from 
                prosecution to an individual or group which has 
                committed an act of terrorism, or which otherwise 
                supports terrorism shall be fully enforced against the 
                Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (other than Montenegro 
                and Kosova).
            (2) Sanction laws specified.--The provisions of law 
        referred to in paragraph (1) are--
                    (A) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2780);
                    (B) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
                    (C) section 528 of this Act (and the corresponding 
                sections of predecessor foreign operations 
                appropriations Acts);
                    (D) section 555 of the International Security and 
                Development Cooperation Act of 1985; and
                    (E) section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act 
                of 1979 (50 U.S.C. app. 2405(j)).
    (c) Multilateral Cooperation.--Congress calls on the President to 
seek multilateral cooperation--
            (1) to deny dangerous technologies to the Federal Republic 
        of Yugoslavia (other than Montenegro and Kosova);
            (2) to induce the Government of the Federal Republic of 
        Yugoslavia to respect internationally recognized human rights 
        (other than Montenegro and Kosova); and
            (3) to induce the Government of the Federal Republic of 
        Yugoslavia to allow appropriate international humanitarian and 
        human rights organizations to have access to the Federal 
        Republic of Yugoslavia (other than Montenegro and Kosova).
    (d) Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Defined.--The term ``Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia'' does not include Montenegro and Kosova.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 526. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as are 
other committees pursuant to subsection (c) of that section: Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such 
Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of 
such defense articles.

                       authorization requirement

    Sec. 527. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

       prohibition on bilateral assistance to terrorist countries

    Sec. 528. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for bilateral assistance under any heading of this Act and 
funds appropriated under any such heading in a provision of law enacted 
prior to enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
        group which has committed an act of international terrorism, or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
      (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to 
a country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least fifteen days before 
the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 529. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt and NATO 
and major non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing (including 
leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from United 
States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment 
(other than helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
civilian application), if the President determines that there are 
compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for those 
defense articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by 
government-to-government sale under such Act.

                         competitive insurance

    Sec. 530. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, 
shall include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies 
have a fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is 
necessary or appropriate.

                distinguished development service award

    Sec. 531. (a) Authority to Award.--The Chairman of the Senate 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs, in consultation with the Ranking Minority Member 
of the Subcommittee and the Administrator of the United States Agency 
for International Development, may authorize the payment of a cash 
award to, and incur necessary expense for the honorary recognition of, 
a career or non-career employee of the Agency who through extraordinary 
efforts makes a significant contribution to assisting developing 
countries to meet the basic needs of their people.
    (b) Selection Criteria.--The Chairman of the Senate Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs, in consultation with the Ranking Minority Member of the 
Subcommittee and the Administrator, shall prescribe the procedures for 
identifying and considering persons eligible for the Distinguished 
Development Service Award, and for selecting the recipient of the 
award, consistent with the provisions of this section. Individuals who 
are non-career members of the Senior Executive Service or the Senior 
Foreign Service, or who are appointed under the authority of section 
624 of this Act, are not eligible for the award authorized by this 
section.
    (c) Nature of Cash Award.--A cash award under this section--
            (1) shall be in the amount of $10,000, and
            (2) shall be in addition to the pay and allowances of the 
        recipient.
    (d) Award in the Event of Death.--If a person selected for an award 
under this section dies before being presented the award, the award may 
be made to the person's family or to the person's representative, as 
designated by the Administrator.
    (e) Funding.--Awards to, and expenses for the honorary recognition 
of, employees of the Agency under this section may be paid from funds 
administered by the Agency that are made available to carry out the 
provisions of this Act.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 532. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under title II of this Act and any interest earned on such investment 
shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance was provided to 
that organization.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 533. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation 
of local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency 
for International Development shall--
            (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
        separate account established by that government;
            (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
        forth--
                    (i) the amount of the local currencies to be 
                generated, and
                    (ii) the terms and conditions under which the 
                currencies so deposited may be utilized, consistent 
                with this section; and
            (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
        responsibilities of the Agency for International Development 
        and that government to monitor and account for deposits into 
        and disbursements from the separate account.
    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local 
currencies, shall be used only--
            (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
        part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                    (i) project and sector assistance activities, or
                    (ii) debt and deficit financing, or
            (B) for the administrative requirements of the United 
        States Government.
    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the 
equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2)(A) from the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 
of part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
which remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Reporting Requirement.--The Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall report on an annual basis as part of 
the justification documents submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the use of local currencies for the administrative 
requirements of the United States Government as authorized in 
subsection (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used and/or to be used 
for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is 
made available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 
or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such funds in a 
separate account and not commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the 
Committee of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (H. 
Report No. 98-1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least fifteen days prior to obligating any 
such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed 
description of how the funds proposed to be made available will be 
used, with a discussion of the United States interests that will be 
served by the assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of 
the economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

  compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 534. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, 
or while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, the North 
American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.

         compliance with united nations sanctions against iraq

    Sec. 535. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act to carry out the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part I, relating to the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms Export Control Act 
may be used to provide assistance to any country that is not in 
compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions against 
Iraq unless the President determines and so certifies to the Congress 
that--
            (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the 
        United States;
            (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people 
        in that country; or
            (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
        assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.

           competitive pricing for sales of defense articles

    Sec. 536. Direct costs associated with meeting a foreign customer's 
additional or unique requirements will continue to be allowable under 
contracts under section 22(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. Loadings 
applicable to such direct costs shall be permitted at the same rates 
applicable to procurement of like items purchased by the Department of 
Defense for its own use.

 authorities for the peace corps, international fund for agricultural 
    development, inter-american foundation and african development 
                               foundation

    Sec. 537. (a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development Foundation 
Act. The agency shall promptly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations whenever it is conducting activities or is proposing to 
conduct activities in a country for which assistance is prohibited.
    (b) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, limitations on the 
availability of funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this or any other Act, including prior appropriations Acts, shall 
not be construed to be applicable to the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 538. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
            (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or 
        developing in a foreign country any export processing zone or 
        designated area in which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, 
        and safety laws of that country do not apply, in part or in 
        whole, to activities carried out within that zone or area, 
        unless the President determines and certifies that such 
        assistance is not likely to cause a loss of jobs within the 
        United States; or
            (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes 
        to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, 
        as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of 
        workers in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That in recognition that the 
        application of this subsection should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, the 
        provisions of this subsection shall not preclude assistance for 
        the informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture.

                           opic maritime fund

    Sec. 539. (a) Section 6001 of Public Law 106-31 is repealed.
    (b) The Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall establish a 
$200,000,000 Maritime Fund within six months from the date of enactment 
of this Act: Provided, That the Maritime Fund shall leverage United 
States commercial maritime expertise to support international maritime 
projects.

                          special authorities

    Sec. 540. (a) Funds appropriated in title II of this Act that are 
made available for Afghanistan, Lebanon, and for victims of war, 
displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian assistance for 
Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of Kosova, may be 
made available notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided, 
That any such funds that are made available for Cambodia shall be 
subject to the provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and section 906 of the International Security and 
Development Cooperation Act of 1985.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation activities 
and, subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations, energy programs aimed at reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions: Provided, That such assistance shall be subject to sections 
116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) The Agency for International Development may employ personal 
services contractors, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of administering programs for the West Bank and Gaza.

        policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 541. It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and 
        publicly renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel; and
            (2) the President should--
                    (A) take more concrete steps to encourage 
                vigorously Arab League countries to renounce publicly 
                the primary boycotts of Israel and the secondary and 
                tertiary boycotts of American firms that have 
                commercial relations with Israel as a confidence-
                building measure;
                    (B) take into consideration the participation of 
                any recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel 
                and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American 
                firms that have commercial relations with Israel when 
                determining whether to sell weapons to said county;
                    (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being 
                taken by the President to bring about a public 
                renunciation of the Arab primary boycott of Israel and 
                the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
                that have commercial relations with Israel; and
                    (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of 
                the United States to enact laws prohibiting businesses 
                from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
                businesses that do comply.

                       anti-narcotics activities

    Sec. 542. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act for ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided to 
strengthen the administration of justice in countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean and in other regions consistent with the provisions 
of section 534(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that 
programs to enhance protection of participants in judicial cases may be 
conducted notwithstanding section 660 of that Act. Funds made available 
pursuant to this section may be made available notwithstanding section 
534(c) and the second and third sentences of section 534(e) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 543. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
and 11 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'': Provided, That the President 
shall take into consideration, in any case in which a restriction on 
assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, whether 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations is 
in the national interest of the United States: Provided further, That 
before using the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in 
support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the regular 
notification procedures of those committees, including a description of 
the program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the 
reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing 
in this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or involuntary sterilizations contained 
in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2000, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of such Act 
and made available pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance 
        to countries that support international terrorism; or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violate 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                                earmarks

    Sec. 544. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked 
may be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States, 
the President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other 
Act shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the 
Administrator of such agency determines and reports promptly to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a 
country or a significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that 
such earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.

                         ceilings and earmarks

    Sec. 545. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so 
directs. Earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any 
other Act shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 546. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of enactment of this Act by the 
Congress: Provided, That not to exceed $750,000 may be made available 
to carry out the provisions of section 316 of Public Law 96-533.

            purchase of american-made equipment and products

    Sec. 547. (a) To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided 
under this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.
    (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, all agriculture commodities, equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-
made.
    (c) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (b) by the Congress.
    (d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress annually 
on the efforts of the heads of each Federal agency and the United 
States directors of international financial institutions (as referenced 
in section 514) in complying with this sense of Congress.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 548. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 549. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing 
law.

             private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 550. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for 
International Development.

  prohibition on assistance to foreign governments that export lethal 
   military equipment to countries supporting international terrorism

    Sec. 551. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal 
military equipment provided under a contract entered into after October 
1, 1997.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of 
the United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.

 withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 552. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a 
foreign country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an 
amount equivalent to 110 per centum of the total unpaid fully 
adjudicated parking fines and penalties owed to the District of 
Columbia by such country as of the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be withheld from obligation for such country until the Secretary of 
State certifies and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional 
committees that such fines and penalties are fully paid to the 
government of the District of Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    limitation on assistance for the plo for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 553. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 604(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 
(title VI of Public Law 104-107) or any other legislation to suspend or 
make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the President 
fails to make the certification under section 604(b)(2) of the Middle 
East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or to suspend the prohibition under 
other legislation, funds appropriated by this Act may not be obligated 
for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for the West 
Bank and Gaza.

                     war crimes tribunals drawdown

    Sec. 554. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the President may direct a drawdown 
pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the 
United Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the 
former Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish to deal with such 
violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination required under 
this section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise required 
under section 552(c): Provided further, That sixty days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and every one hundred eighty days thereafter, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations describing the steps the United States Government is 
taking to collect information regarding allegations of genocide or 
other violations of international law in the former Yugoslavia and to 
furnish that information to the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal for 
the former Yugoslavia: Provided further, That the drawdown made under 
this section for any tribunal shall not be construed as an endorsement 
or precedent for the establishment of any standing or permanent 
international criminal tribunal or court: Provided further, That funds 
made available for tribunals other than Yugoslavia or Rwanda shall be 
made available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                               landmines

    Sec. 555. Demining Equipment.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, demining equipment available to the Agency for International 
Development and the Department of State and used in support of the 
clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian 
purposes may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign countries, 
subject to such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe.

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 556. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office 
of any department or agency of the United States Government for the 
purpose of conducting official United States Government business with 
the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration 
of Principles: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
employees of the United States and officials of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for 
in the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of 
conducting official United States Government business with such 
authority should continue to take place in locations other than 
Jerusalem. As has been true in the past, officers and employees of the 
United States Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other 
subjects with Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in 
the Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

               prohibition of payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 557. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities may be obligated or expended to pay 
for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages;
            (2) food (other than food provided at a military 
        installation) not provided in conjunction with Informational 
        Program trips where students do not stay at a military 
        installation; or
            (3) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
        fees at sporting events and amusement parks.

                  special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 558. (a) Authority to Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms 
        Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation for a 
        Latin American country, to pay for purchases of United States 
        agricultural commodities guaranteed by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation under export credit guarantee programs authorized 
        pursuant to section 5(f) of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
        Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as amended, section 4(b) of the 
        Food for Peace Act of 1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or 
        section 202 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended 
        (Public Law 95-501).
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt relief 
        ad referendum agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club 
        Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided 
        in advance by appropriations Acts.
            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy debt 
        burdens that are eligible to borrow from the International 
        Development Association, but not from the International Bank 
        for Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as 
        ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
        control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security forces) does 
        not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for 
purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The 
authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding 
section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

             authority to engage in debt buybacks or sales

    Sec. 559. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or 
Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain loans.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may, 
        in accordance with this section, sell to any eligible purchaser 
        any concessional loan or portion thereof made before January 1, 
        1995, pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to the 
        government of any eligible country as defined in section 702(6) 
        of that Act or on receipt of payment from an eligible 
        purchaser, reduce or cancel such loan or portion thereof, only 
        for the purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
                swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country of its 
                own qualified debt, only if the eligible country uses 
                an additional amount of the local currency of the 
                eligible country, equal to not less than 40 per centum 
                of the price paid for such debt by such eligible 
                country, or the difference between the price paid for 
                such debt and the face value of such debt, to support 
                activities that link conservation and sustainable use 
                of natural resources with local community development, 
                and child survival and other child development, in a 
                manner consistent with sections 707 through 710 of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, if the sale, reduction, 
                or cancellation would not contravene any term or 
                condition of any prior agreement relating to such loan.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President shall, in accordance with this 
        section, establish the terms and conditions under which loans 
        may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in section 
        702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall notify the 
        administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of 
        purchasers that the President has determined to be eligible, 
        and shall direct such agency to carry out the sale, reduction, 
        or cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section. Such agency 
        shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the sale, 
        reduction, or cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection shall 
        be available only to the extent that appropriations for the 
        cost of the modification, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance.
    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or 
cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or 
accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the 
President for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, 
of any loan made to an eligible country, the President should consult 
with the country concerning the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or 
canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt restructuring''.

                   limitation on assistance for haiti

    Sec. 560. (a) Limitation.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
made available for assistance for the central Government of Haiti only 
if the President reports to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate that the Government of Haiti--
            (1) has completed privatization of (or placed under long-
        term private management or concession) three major public 
        entities including the completion of all required incorporating 
        documents, the transfer of assets, and the eviction of 
        unauthorized occupants of the land or facility;
            (2) has re-signed or is implementing the bilateral 
        Repatriation Agreement with the United States and in the 
        preceding six months that the central Government of Haiti is 
        cooperating with the United States in halting illegal 
        emigration from Haiti;
            (3) is conducting thorough investigations of extrajudicial 
        and political killings and has made substantial progress in 
        bringing to justice a person or persons responsible for one or 
        more extrajudicial or political killings in Haiti, and is 
        cooperating with United States authorities and with United 
        States-funded technical advisors to the Haitian National Police 
        in such investigations;
            (4) has taken action to remove from the Haitian National 
        Police, national palace and residential guard, ministerial 
        guard, and any other public security entity or unit of Haiti 
        those individuals who are credibly alleged to have engaged in 
        or conspired to conceal gross violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights or credibly alleged to have engaged in 
        or conspired to engage in narcotics trafficking; and
            (5) has ratified or is implementing the maritime counter-
        narcotics agreements signed in October 1997.
    (b) Availability of Electoral Assistance.--The limitation in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act that 
are made available to support elections in Haiti if the President 
reports to the Congress that the central Government of Haiti:
            (1) has achieved a transparent settlement of the contested 
        April 1997 elections; and
            (2) has made concrete progress on the constitution of a 
        credible and competent provisional electoral council that is 
        acceptable to a broad spectrum of political parties and civic 
        groups.
    (c) Exceptions.--The limitations in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
not apply to the provision of--
            (1) counter-narcotics assistance, support for the Haitian 
        National Police's Special Investigations Unit and anti-
        corruption programs, the International Criminal Investigative 
        Assistance Program, and assistance in support of Haitian 
        customs and maritime officials;
            (2) food assistance management and support;
            (3) assistance for urgent humanitarian needs, such as 
        medical and other supplies and services in support of community 
        health services, schools, and orphanages; and
            (4) not more than $3,000,000 for the development and 
        support of political parties and civic groups.
    (d) Waiver.--At any time after 150 days from the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State may waive the requirements 
contained in subsection (a)(1) if she reports to the Committees 
specified in subsection (a) that the Government of Haiti has satisfied 
the requirements of subsection (a)(1) with regard to one major public 
entity and has satisfied the remaining requirements of subsection (a).
    (e) Reports.--The Secretary of State shall provide to the 
Committees specified in subsection (a) on a quarterly basis--
            (1) in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, a report 
        on the status and number of United States personnel deployed in 
        and around Haiti on Department of Defense, Drug Enforcement 
        Administration, and United Nations missions, including displays 
        by functional or operational assignment for such personnel and 
        the cost to the United States of these operations; and
            (2) the monthly reports, prepared during the previous 
        quarter, of the Organization of American States/United Nations 
        International Civilian Mission to Haiti (MICIVIH).
    (f) Administration of Justice Assistance.--(1) The limitation in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to funds appropriated under this Act 
that are made available for the Ministry of Justice for the training of 
judges if the President determines and reports to the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives, that Haiti's Minister of 
Justice--
            (A) has demonstrated a commitment to the professionalism of 
        judicial personnel by consistently placing students graduated 
        by the Judicial School in appropriate judicial positions and 
        has made a commitment to share program costs associated with 
        the Judicial School; and
            (B) is making progress in making the judicial branch in 
        Haiti independent from the executive branch.
    (2) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to funds to 
support the training of prosecutors, judicial mentoring, legal 
assistance, and case management.

  requirement for disclosure of foreign aid in report of secretary of 
                                 state

    Sec. 561. (a) Foreign Aid Reporting Requirement.--In addition to 
the voting practices of a foreign country, the report required to be 
submitted to Congress under section 406(a) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act fiscal years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2414a), shall 
include a side-by-side comparison of individual countries' overall 
support for the United States at the United Nations and the amount of 
United States assistance provided to such country in fiscal year 1998.
    (b) United States Assistance.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``United States assistance'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 481(e)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2291(e)(4)).

                                 haiti

    Sec. 562. The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase 
defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the civilian-led Haitian National Police and 
Coast Guard: Provided, That the authority provided by this section 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

              limitation on assistance to security forces

    Sec. 563. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
provided to any unit of the security forces of a foreign country if the 
Secretary of State has credible evidence to believe such unit has 
committed gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
government of such country is taking effective measures to bring the 
responsible members of the security forces unit to justice: Provided, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to withhold funds made 
available by this Act from any unit of the security forces of a foreign 
country not credibly alleged to be involved in gross violations of 
human rights: Provided further, That in the event that funds are 
withheld from any unit pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State 
shall promptly inform the foreign government of the basis for such 
action and shall, to the maximum extent practicable, assist the foreign 
government in taking effective measures to bring the responsible 
members of the security forces to justice.

                                cambodia

    Sec. 564. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the international financial institutions 
to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose loans to the 
Government of Cambodia, except loans to support basic human needs, 
unless the Secretary of State has determined and reported to the 
Committees on Appropriations that Cambodia has held free and fair 
elections in which all political candidates were permitted freedom of 
speech, assembly and equal access to the media and the Central Election 
Commission was comprised of representatives from all parties; and the 
Government has established a panel and begun the prosecution of Khmer 
Rouge leaders including Ta Mok, Khieu Sampan, Nuon Chea, Ieng Sary, Ke 
Pauk, and Duch.

      limitations on transfer of military equipment to east timor

    Sec. 565. In any agreement for the sale, transfer, or licensing of 
any lethal equipment or helicopter for Indonesia entered into by the 
United States pursuant to the authority of this Act or any other Act, 
the agreement shall state that the items will not be used in East 
Timor.

   restrictions on voluntary contributions to united nations agencies

    Sec. 566. (a) Prohibition on Voluntary Contributions for the United 
Nations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be made available to pay any voluntary contribution of the 
United States to the United Nations (including the United Nations 
Development Program) if the United Nations implements or imposes any 
taxation on any United States persons.
    (b) Certification Required for Disbursement of Funds.--None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act may be 
made available to pay any voluntary contribution of the United States 
to the United Nations (including the United Nations Development 
Program) unless the President certifies to the Congress 15 days in 
advance of such payment that the United Nations is not engaged in any 
effort to implement or impose any taxation on United States persons in 
order to raise revenue for the United Nations or any of its specialized 
agencies.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section the term ``United States 
person'' refers to--
            (1) a natural person who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or
            (2) a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity 
        organized under the United States or any State, territory, 
        possession, or district of the United States.

restrictions on assistance to countries providing sanctuary to indicted 
                             war criminals

    Sec. 567. (a) Bilateral Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by this or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing and related programs, may be provided for 
any country, entity or canton described in subsection (e).
    (b) Multilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive directors of the 
        international financial institutions to work in opposition to, 
        and vote against, any extension by such institutions of any 
        financial or technical assistance or grants of any kind to any 
        country or entity described in subsection (e).
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days before any vote in 
        an international financial institution regarding the extension 
        of financial or technical assistance or grants to any country 
        or entity described in subsection (e), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
        provide to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a written 
        justification for the proposed assistance, including an 
        explanation of the United States position regarding any such 
        vote, as well as a description of the location of the proposed 
        assistance by municipality, its purpose, and its intended 
        beneficiaries.
            (3) Definition.--The term ``international financial 
        institution'' includes the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International 
        Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guaranty 
        Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), subsections (a) 
        and (b) shall not apply to the provision of--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) democratization assistance;
                    (C) assistance for cross border physical 
                infrastructure projects involving activities in both a 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton and a 
                nonsanctioned contiguous country, entity, or canton, if 
                the project is primarily located in and primarily 
                benefits the nonsanctioned country, entity, or canton 
                and if the portion of the project located in the 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton is necessary only 
                to complete the project;
                    (D) small-scale assistance projects or activities 
                requested by United States Armed Forces that promote 
                good relations between such forces and the officials 
                and citizens of the areas in the United States SFOR 
                sector of Bosnia;
                    (E) implementation of the Brcko Arbitral Decision;
                    (F) lending by the international financial 
                institutions to a country or entity to support common 
                monetary and fiscal policies at the national level as 
                contemplated by the Dayton Agreement; or
                    (G) direct lending to a non-sanctioned entity, or 
                lending passed on by the national government to a non-
                sanctioned entity.
                    (H) assistance to the International Police Task 
                Force for the training of a civilian police force.
            (2) Notification.--Every 30 days the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the Agency for 
        International Development, shall publish in the Federal 
        Register and/or in a comparable publicly accessible document or 
        internet site, a listing and justification of any assistance 
        that is obligated within that period of time for any country, 
        entity, or canton described in subsection (e), including a 
        description of the purpose of the assistance project and its 
        location, by municipality.
    (d) Further limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)--
            (1) no assistance may be made available by this Act, or any 
        prior Act making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
        financing and related programs, in any country, entity, or 
        canton described in subsection (e), for a program, project, or 
        activity in which a publicly indicted war criminal is known to 
        have any financial or material interest; and
            (2) no assistance (other than emergency foods or medical 
        assistance or demining assistance) may be made available by 
        this Act, or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
        operations, export financing and related programs for any 
        program, project, or activity in a community within any 
        country, entity or canton described in subsection (e) if 
        competent authorities within that community are not complying 
        with the provisions of Article IX and Annex 4, Article II, 
        paragraph 8 of the Dayton Agreement relating to war crimes and 
        the Tribunal.
    (e) Sanctioned Country, Entity, or Canton.--A sanctioned country, 
entity, or canton described in this section is one whose competent 
authorities have failed, as determined by the Secretary of State, to 
take necessary and significant steps to apprehend and transfer to the 
Tribunal all persons who have been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (f) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
        application of subsection (a) or subsection (b) with respect to 
        specified bilateral programs or international financial 
        institution projects or programs in a sanctioned country, 
        entity, or canton upon providing a written determination to the 
        Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
        Representatives that such assistance directly supports the 
        implementation of the Dayton Agreement and its Annexes, which 
        include the obligation to apprehend and transfer indicted war 
        criminals to the Tribunal.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the date of any 
        written determination under paragraph (1) the Secretary of 
        State shall submit a report to the Committee on Appropriations 
        and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on International 
        Relations of the House of Representatives regarding the status 
        of efforts to secure the voluntary surrender or apprehension 
        and transfer of persons indicted by the Tribunal, in accordance 
        with the Dayton Agreement, and outlining obstacles to achieving 
        this goal; and
            (3) Assistance programs and projects affected.--Any waiver 
        made pursuant to this subsection shall be effective only with 
        respect to a specified bilateral program or multilateral 
        assistance project or program identified in the determination 
        of the Secretary of State to Congress.
    (g) Termination of Sanctions.--The sanctions imposed pursuant to 
subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a country or entity shall cease 
to apply only if the Secretary of State determines and certifies to 
Congress that the authorities of that country, entity, or canton have 
apprehended and transferred to the Tribunal all persons who have been 
publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (h) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) Country.--The term ``country'' means Bosnia-
        Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia, and Montenegro.
            (2) Entity.--The term ``entity'' refers to the Federation 
        of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska.
            (3) Canton.--The term ``canton'' means the administrative 
        units in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
            (4) Dayton agreement.--The term ``Dayton Agreement'' means 
        the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and 
        Herzegovina, together with annexes relating thereto, done at 
        Dayton, November 10 through 16, 1995.
            (5) Tribunal.--The term ``Tribunal'' means the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
    (i) Role of Human Rights Organizations and Government Agencies.--In 
carrying out this section, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development, and the executive directors 
of the international financial institutions shall consult with 
representatives of human rights organizations and all government 
agencies with relevant information to help prevent publicly indicted 
war criminals from benefitting from any financial or technical 
assistance or grants provided to any country or entity described in 
subsection (e).

         excess defense articles for certain european countries

    Sec. 568. Section 105 of Public Law 104-164 (110 Stat. 1427) is 
amended by striking ``1996 and 1997'' and inserting ``1999 and 2000''.

additional requirements relating to stockpiling of defense articles for 
                           foreign countries

    Sec. 569. (a) Value of Additions to Stockpiles.--Section 
514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking the following: ``$50,000,000 for 
each of the fiscal years 1996 and 1997, $60,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998, and'' and inserting in lieu thereof before the period at the end, 
the following: ``and $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2000''.
    (b) Requirements Relating to the Republic of Korea and Thailand.--
Section 514(b)(2)(B) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(B)) is amended 
by striking the following: ``Of the amount specified in subparagraph 
(A) for each of the fiscal years 1996 and 1997, not more than 
$40,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in the Republic of 
Korea and not more than $10,000,000 may be made available for 
stockpiles in Thailand. Of the amount specified in subparagraph (A) for 
fiscal year 1998, not more than $40,000,000 may be made available for 
stockpiles in the Republic of Korea and not more than $20,000,000 may 
be made available for stockpiles in Thailand.''; and at the end 
inserting the following sentence: ``Of the amount specified in 
subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 2000, not more than $40,000,000 may be 
made available for stockpiles in the Republic of Korea and not more 
than $20,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in Thailand.''.

 to prohibit foreign assistance to the government of russia should it 
 enact laws which would discriminate against minority religious faiths 
                       in the russian federation

    Sec. 570. (a) None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be 
made available for the Government of Russian Federation, after 180 days 
from the date of enactment of this Act, unless the President determines 
and certifies in writing to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the Government of the 
Russian Federation has implemented no statute, executive order, 
regulation or similar government action that would discriminate, or 
would have as its principal effect discrimination, against religious 
groups or religious communities in the Russian Federation in violation 
of accepted international agreements on human rights and religious 
freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a party.

                        greenhouse gas emissions

    Sec. 571. (a) Funds made available in this Act to support programs 
or activities promoting or assisting country participation in the Kyoto 
Protocol to the Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) shall 
only be made available subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) The President shall provide a detailed account of all Federal 
agency obligations and expenditures for climate change programs and 
activities, domestic and international obligations for such activities 
in fiscal year 2000, and any plan for programs thereafter related to 
the implementation or the furtherance of protocols pursuant to, or 
related to negotiations to amend the FCCC in conjunction with the 
President's submission of the Budget of the United States Government 
for Fiscal Year 2001: Provided, That such report shall include an 
accounting of expenditures by agency with each agency identifying 
climate change activities and associated costs by line item as 
presented in the President's Budget Appendix.

       aid to the government of the democratic republic of congo

    Sec. 572. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be provided to the Central Government of the 
Democratic Republic of Congo.

                 export financing transfer authorities

    Sec. 573. Not to exceed 5 per centum of any appropriation other 
than for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 2000 
for programs under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs and activities 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 25 per centum by any such transfer: Provided, 
That the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

           new independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 574. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'' shall be made available for assistance for a Government of the 
New Independent States of the former Soviet Union--
            (1) unless that Government is making progress in 
        implementing comprehensive economic reforms based on market 
        principles, private ownership, respect for commercial 
        contracts, and equitable treatment of foreign private 
        investment; and
            (2) if that Government applies or transfers United States 
        assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
        seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or 
        ventures.
Assistance may be furnished without regard to this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be 
made available for assistance for a Government of the New Independent 
States of the former Soviet Union if that government directs any action 
in violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of 
any other new independent state, such as those violations included in 
the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made available 
without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States.
    (c) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be 
made available for any state to enhance its military capability: 
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to demilitarization, 
demining or nonproliferation programs.
    (d) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f) Funds appropriated in this or prior appropriations Acts that 
are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund in the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union may be deposited by such 
Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such 
funds by the Fund for program purposes. The Fund may retain for such 
program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without returning 
such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without further 
appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for Enterprise 
Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for projects and activities.
    (g) In issuing new task orders, entering into contracts, or making 
grants, with funds appropriated in this Act or prior appropriations 
Acts under the heading ``Assistance for the New Independent States of 
the Former Soviet Union'' for projects or activities that have as one 
of their primary purposes the fostering of private sector development, 
the Coordinator for United States Assistance to the New Independent 
States and the implementing agency shall encourage the participation of 
and give significant weight to contractors and grantees who propose 
investing a significant amount of their own resources (including 
volunteer services and in-kind contributions) in such projects and 
activities.

                           customs assistance

    Sec. 575. Section 660(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is 
amended by--
            (1) striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and in 
        lieu thereof inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) adding the following new paragraph:
                    ``(7) with respect to assistance provided to 
                customs authorities and personnel, including training, 
                technical assistance and equipment, for customs law 
                enforcement and the improvement of customs laws, 
                systems and procedures.''.

 voluntary separation incentives for employees of the u.s. agency for 
                       international development

    Sec. 576. (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' means the United States Agency for 
        International Development;
            (2) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator, 
        United States Agency for International Development; and
            (3) the term ``employee'' means an employee (as defined by 
        section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) who is employed by 
        the agency, is serving under an appointment without time 
        limitation, and has been currently employed for a continuous 
        period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
                    (A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of 
                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
                Code, or another retirement system for employees of the 
                agency;
                    (B) an employee having a disability on the basis of 
                which such employee is or would be eligible for 
                disability retirement under the applicable retirement 
                system referred to in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) an employee who is to be separated 
                involuntarily for misconduct or unacceptable 
                performance, and to whom specific notice has been given 
                with respect to that separation;
                    (D) an employee who has previously received any 
                voluntary separation incentive payment by the 
                Government of the United States under this section or 
                any other authority and has not repaid such payment;
                    (E) an employee covered by statutory reemployment 
                rights who is on transfer to another organization; or
                    (F) any employee who, during the 24-month period 
                preceding the date of separation, received a 
                recruitment or relocation bonus under section 5753 of 
                title 5, United States Code, or who, within the 12-
                month period preceding the date of separation, received 
                a retention allowance under section 5754 of such title 
                5.
    (b) Agency Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, before obligating any 
        resources for voluntary separation incentive payments under 
        this section, shall submit to the Office of Management and 
        Budget a strategic plan outlining the intended use of such 
        incentive payments and a proposed organizational chart for the 
        agency once such incentive payments have been completed.
            (2) Contents.--The agency's plan shall include--
                    (A) the positions and functions to be reduced or 
                eliminated, identified by organizational unit, 
                geographic location, occupational category and grade 
                level;
                    (B) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered;
                    (C) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions; and
                    (D) the time period during which incentives may be 
                paid.
            (3) Approval.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget shall review the agency's plan and approve or disapprove 
        the plan and may make appropriate modifications in the plan 
        with respect to the coverage of incentives as described under 
        paragraph (2)(A), and with respect to the matters described in 
        paragraphs (2) (B) through (D).
    (c) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) In general.--A voluntary separation incentive payment 
        under this section may be paid by the agency to employees of 
        such agency and only to the extent necessary to eliminate the 
        positions and functions identified by the strategic plan.
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment under this section--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the 
                employee's separation;
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employees;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                            (i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 
                        section 5595(c) of title 5, United States Code, 
                        if the employee were entitled to payment under 
                        such section; or
                            (ii) an amount determined by the agency 
                        head not to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may not be made except in the case of any 
                employee who voluntarily separates (whether by 
                retirement or resignation) on or before December 31, 
                2000;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation.
    (d) Additional Agency Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
        chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall 
        remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the 
        Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil 
        Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 
        percent of the final basic pay of each employee of the agency 
        who is covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 
        of title 5, United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation 
        incentive has been paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term 
        ``final basic pay'', with respect to an employee, means the 
        total amount of basic pay which would be payable for a year of 
        service by such employee, computed using the employee's final 
        rate of basic pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-
        time basis, with appropriate adjustment therefor.
    (e) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--
            (1) An individual who has received a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section and accepts any employment 
        for compensation with the Government of the United States, or 
        who works for any agency of the Government of the United States 
        through a personal services contract, within 5 years after the 
        date of the separation on which the payment is based shall be 
        required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
        employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to the 
        agency that paid the incentive payment.
            (2) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with an 
        Executive agency (as defined by section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code), the United States Postal Service, or the Postal 
        Rate Commission, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, waive 
        the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique 
        abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the 
        position.
            (3) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with an entity 
        in the legislative branch, the head of the entity or the 
        appointing official may waive the repayment if the individual 
        involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified 
        applicant available for the position.
            (4) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with the 
        judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of 
        the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the 
        individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only 
        qualified applicant for the position.
    (f) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) In general.--The total number of funded employee 
        positions in the agency shall be reduced by one position for 
        each vacancy created by the separation of any employee who has 
        received, or is due to receive, a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section. For the purposes of this 
        subsection, positions shall be counted on a full-time-
        equivalent basis.
            (2) Enforcement.--The President, through the Office of 
        Management and Budget, shall monitor the agency and take any 
        action necessary to ensure that the requirements of this 
        subsection are met.
    (g) Regulations.--The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe 
such regulations as may be necessary to implement this section.

         limitation on assistance to the palestinian authority

    Sec. 577. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or expended with 
respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate that 
waiving such prohibition is important to the national security 
interests of the United States: Provided, That if such waiver is 
exercised, such funds shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of six 
months at a time and shall not apply beyond twelve months after 
enactment of this Act.

                        sanctions against serbia

    Sec. 578. (a) Continuation of Executive Branch Sanctions.--The 
sanctions listed in subsection (b) shall remain in effect until January 
1, 2001, unless the President submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations of the House of 
Representatives a certification described in subsection (c).
    (b) Applicable Sanctions.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of the international financial 
        institutions to work in opposition to, and vote against, any 
        extension by such institutions of any financial or technical 
        assistance or grants of any kind to the government of Serbia-
        Montenegro.
            (2) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Ambassador to the Organization for Security and 
        Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to block any consensus to allow 
        the participation of Serbia-Montenegro in the OSCE or any 
        organization affiliated with the OSCE.
            (3) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representative to the United Nations to vote against any 
        resolution in the United Nations Security Council to admit 
        Serbia-Montenegro to the United Nations or any organization 
        affiliated with the United Nations, to veto any resolution to 
        allow Serbia-Montenegro to assume the United Nations' 
        membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of 
        Yugoslavia, and to take action to prevent Serbia-Montenegro 
        from assuming the seat formerly occupied by the Socialist 
        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
            (4) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization to oppose the extension of the 
        Partnership for Peace program or any other organization 
        affiliated with NATO to Serbia-Montenegro.
            (5) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representatives to the Southeast European Cooperative 
        Initiative (SECI) to oppose and to work to prevent the 
        extension of SECI membership to Serbia-Montenegro.
    (c) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a certification that--
            (1) the representatives of the successor states to the 
        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have successfully 
        negotiated the division of assets and liabilities and all other 
        succession issues following the dissolution of the Socialist 
        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
            (2) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is fully complying 
        with its obligations as a signatory to the General Framework 
        Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
            (3) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is fully 
        cooperating with and providing unrestricted access to the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, 
        including surrendering persons indicted for war crimes who are 
        within the jurisdiction of the territory of Serbia-Montenegro, 
        and with the investigations concerning the commission of war 
        crimes and crimes against humanity in Kosova;
            (4) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is implementing 
        internal democratic reforms; and
            (5) Serbian, Serbian-Montenegrin federal governmental 
        officials, and representatives of the ethnic Albanian community 
        in Kosova have agreed on, signed, and begun implementation of a 
        negotiated settlement on the future status of Kosova.
    (d) Statement of Policy.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States should not restore full diplomatic relations with Serbia-
Montenegro until the President submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations in the House of 
Representatives the certification described in subsection (c).
    (e) Exemption of Montenegro.--The sanctions described in subsection 
(b)(1) should not apply to the government of Montenegro or Kosova.
    (f) Definition.--The term ``international financial institution'' 
includes the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Multilateral 
Investment Guaranty Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development.
    (g) Waiver Authority.--
            (1) The President may waive the application in whole or in 
        part, of any sanction described in subsection (b) if the 
        President certifies to the Congress that the President has 
        determined that the waiver is necessary to meet emergency 
        humanitarian needs or to achieve a negotiated settlement of the 
        conflict in Kosova that is acceptable to the parties.
            (2) Such a wavier may only be effective upon certification 
        by the President to Congress that the United States has 
        transferred and will continue to transfer (subject to adequate 
        protection of intelligence sources and methods) to the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia all 
        information it has collected in support of an indictment and 
        trial of President Slobodan Milosevic for war crimes, crimes 
        against humanity, or genocide.
            (3) In the event of a waiver, within seven days the 
        President must report the basis upon which the waiver was made 
        to the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations in the Senate, and the Permanent Select 
        Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on International 
        Relations in the House of Representatives.

                         clean coal technology

    Sec. 579. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The United States is the world leader in the 
        development of environmental technologies, particularly clean 
        coal technology.
            (2) Severe pollution problems affecting people in 
        developing countries, and the serious health problems that 
        result from such pollution, can be effectively addressed 
        through the application of United States technology.
            (3) During the next century, developing countries, 
        particularly countries in Asia such as China and India, will 
        dramatically increase their consumption of electricity, and low 
        quality coal will be a major source of fuel for power 
        generation.
            (4) Without the use of modern clean coal technology, the 
        resultant pollution will cause enormous health and 
        environmental problems leading to diminished economic growth in 
        developing countries and, thus, diminished United States 
        exports to those growing markets.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
promote the export of United States clean coal technology. In 
furtherance of that policy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
the Treasury (acting through the United States executive directors to 
international financial institutions), the Secretary of Energy, and the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) should, as appropriate, vigorously promote the use of United 
States clean coal technology in environmental and energy infrastructure 
programs, projects and activities. Programs, projects and activities 
for which the use of such technology should be considered include 
reconstruction assistance for the Balkans, activities carried out by 
the Global Environmental Facility, and activities funded from USAID's 
Development Credit Authority.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000''.


                                                       Calendar No. 159

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1234

                          [Report No. 106-81]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 17, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar