[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1156 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 155
105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1156

                          [Report No. 105-75]

 Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia 
    and other activities chargeable in whole or in part against the 
  revenues of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     1998, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 9, 1997

   Mr. Faircloth, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia 
    and other activities chargeable in whole or in part against the 
  revenues of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     1998, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That, the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the District of Columbia for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                             FEDERAL FUNDS

                 Federal Payment for Management Reform

    For payment to the District of Columbia, as authorized by section 
11103(c) of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, $8,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999, which shall be deposited into an 
escrow account of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, pursuant to section 205 of Public Law 
104-8 (109 Stat. 131), and shall be disbursed from such escrow account 
pursuant to the instructions of the Authority only for a program of 
management reform pursuant to sections 11101-11106 of the District of 
Columbia Management Reform Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33.

     Federal Contribution to the Operations of the Nation's Capital

    For a Federal contribution to the District of Columbia toward the 
costs of the operation of the government of the District of Columbia, 
$190,000,000: Provided, That these funds may be used by the District of 
Columbia for the costs of advances to the District government as 
authorized by section 11402 of the National Capital Revitalization and 
Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33: Provided 
further, That not less than $30,000,000 shall be used by the District 
of Columbia to repay the accumulated general fund deficit.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee, 
$169,000,000 for the administration and operation of correctional 
facilities, as authorized by section 11202 of the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, Public Law 
105-33.

  Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee for 
            Correctional Facilities, Construction and Repair

    For payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee for 
Correctional Facilities, $302,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not less than $294,900,000 is available for transfer 
to the Federal Prison System, as authorized by section 11202 of the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997, Public Law 105-33.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $116,000,000, for the 
Administrative Office of the United States Courts, to be available only 
for obligation by the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the 
District of Columbia for operation of the District of Columbia Courts, 
of which not to exceed $750,000 shall be available for establishment 
and operations of the District of Columbia Truth in Sentencing 
Commission as authorized by section 11211 of the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, Public Law 
105-33.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an additional 
amount, $30,000,000, for the Administrative Office of the United States 
Courts, to be available only for obligation by the Offender Supervision 
Trustee, for Pretrial Services, Defense Services, Parole, Adult 
Probation, and administrative operating costs of the Office of the 
Offender Supervision Trustee, of which not to exceed $800,000 shall be 
transferred to the United States Parole Commission to implement section 
11231 of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $105,177,000 (including 
$84,316,000, from local funds, $14,013,000 from Federal funds, and 
$6,848,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall be available from 
this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That any 
program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available for 
the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal sources 
shall be used to support the operations or activities of the Statehood 
Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for 
Admission to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: 
Provided further, That $240,000 shall be available for citywide special 
elections: Provided further, That all employees permanently assigned to 
work in the Office of the Mayor shall be paid from funds allocated to 
the Office of the Mayor.

                  Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $120,072,000 (including 
$40,377,000 from local funds, $42,065,000 from Federal funds, and 
$37,630,000 from other funds), together with $12,000,000 collected in 
the form of BID tax revenue collected by the District of Columbia on 
behalf of business improvement districts pursuant to the Business 
Improvement Districts Act of 1996, effective May 29, 1996 (D.C. Law 11-
134; D.C. Code, sec. 1-2271 et seq.), and the Business Improvement 
Districts Temporary Amendment Act of 1997 (Bill 12-230).

                       Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, including purchase or lease of 135 
passenger-carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for 
police-type use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, 
$529,739,000 (including $510,326,000 from local funds, $13,519,000 from 
Federal funds, and $5,894,000 from other funds): Provided, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to replace not to exceed 
25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Department of Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services of the District of Columbia is authorized to replace 
not to exceed five passenger-carrying vehicles annually whenever the 
cost of repair to any damaged vehicle exceeds three-fourths of the cost 
of the replacement: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall 
be available from this appropriation for the Chief of Police for the 
prevention and detection of crime: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department shall provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate on efforts to 
increase efficiency and improve the professionalism in the department: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or 
Mayor's Order 86-45, issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan Police 
Department's delegated small purchase authority shall be $500,000: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia government may not 
require the Metropolitan Police Department to submit to any other 
procurement review process, or to obtain the approval of or be 
restricted in any manner by any official or employee of the District of 
Columbia government, for purchases that do not exceed $500,000: 
Provided further, That the Mayor shall reimburse the District of 
Columbia National Guard for expenses incurred in connection with 
services that are performed in emergencies by the National Guard in a 
militia status and are requested by the Mayor, in amounts that shall be 
jointly determined and certified as due and payable for these services 
by the Mayor and the Commanding General of the District of Columbia 
National Guard: Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary 
for reimbursement to the District of Columbia National Guard under the 
preceding proviso shall be available from this appropriation, and the 
availability of the sums shall be deemed as constituting payment in 
advance for emergency services involved: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to maintain 3,800 sworn 
officers, with leave for a 50 officer attrition: Provided further, That 
no more than 15 members of the Metropolitan Police Department shall be 
detailed or assigned to the Executive Protection Unit, until the Chief 
of Police submits a recommendation to the Council for its review: 
Provided further, That $100,000 shall be available for inmates released 
on medical and geriatric parole: Provided further, That not less than 
$2,254,754 shall be available to support a pay raise for uniformed 
firefighters, when authorized by the District of Columbia Council and 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority, which funding will be made available as savings 
achieved through actions within the appropriated budget: Provided 
further, That, commencing on December 31, 1997, the Metropolitan Police 
Department shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on Government Reform 
and Oversight of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and quarterly reports on the status 
of crime reduction in each of the 83 police service areas established 
throughout the District of Columbia.

                        Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $672,444,000 (including $530,197,000 from 
local funds, $112,806,000 from Federal funds, and $29,441,000 from 
other funds), to be allocated as follows: $564,129,000 (including 
$460,143,000 from local funds, $98,491,000 from Federal funds, and 
$5,495,000 from other funds), for the public schools of the District of 
Columbia; $1,235,000 from local funds for public charter schools: 
Provided, That if the entirety of this allocation has not been provided 
as payments to one or more public charter schools by May 1, 1998, and 
remains unallocated, the funds will revert to the general fund of the 
District of Columbia in accordance with section 2403(a)(2)(D) of the 
District of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134); 
$74,087,000 (including $37,791,000 from local funds, $12,804,000 from 
Federal funds, and $23,492,000 from other funds) for the University of 
the District of Columbia; $22,036,000 (including $20,424,000 from local 
funds, $1,158,000 from Federal funds, and $454,000 from other funds) 
for the Public Library; $2,057,000 (including $1,704,000 from local 
funds and $353,000 from Federal funds) for the Commission on the Arts 
and Humanities: Provided further, That the public schools of the 
District of Columbia are authorized to accept not to exceed 31 motor 
vehicles for exclusive use in the driver education program: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the Superintendent of Schools, 
$2,500 for the President of the University of the District of Columbia, 
and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall be available from this 
appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That not less 
than $1,200,000 shall be available for local school allotments in a 
restricted line item: Provided further, That not less than $4,500,000 
shall be available to support kindergarten aides in a restricted line 
item: Provided further, That not less than $2,800,000 shall be 
available to support substitute teachers in a restricted line item: 
Provided further, That not less than $1,788,000 shall be available in a 
restricted line item for school counselors: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall not be available to subsidize the education of 
nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the University of the 
District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of the University of 
the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1998, a tuition rate schedule that will establish the tuition rate 
for nonresident students at a level no lower than the nonresident 
tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of higher 
education in the metropolitan area.

                         Human Support Services

    Human support services, $1,718,939,000 (including $789,350,000 from 
local funds, $886,702,000 from Federal funds, and $42,887,000 from 
other funds): Provided, That $21,089,000 of this appropriation, to 
remain available until expended, shall be available solely for District 
of Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That 
a peer review committee shall be established to review medical payments 
and the type of service received by a disability compensation claimant: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia shall not provide free 
government services such as water, sewer, solid waste disposal or 
collection, utilities, maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any 
legally constituted private nonprofit organization (as defined in 
section 411(5) of Public Law 100-77, approved July 22, 1987) providing 
emergency shelter services in the District, if the District would not 
be qualified to receive reimbursement pursuant to the Stewart B. 
McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, approved July 22, 1987 (101 Stat. 
485; Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle 
for use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by 
the Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-
carrying vehicles $241,934,000 (including $227,983,000 from local 
funds, $3,350,000 from Federal funds, and $10,601,000 from other 
funds): Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for 
collecting ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of 
business: Provided further, That $3,000,000 shall be available for the 
lease financing, operation, and maintenance of two mechanical street 
sweepers, one flusher truck, five packer trucks, one front-end loader, 
and various public litter containers: Provided further, That $2,400,000 
shall be available for recycling activities.

                        Financing and Other Uses

    Financing and other uses, $454,773,000 (including for payment to 
the Washington Convention Center, $5,400,000 from local funds; 
reimbursement to the United States of funds loaned in compliance with 
An Act to provide for the establishment of a modern, adequate, and 
efficient hospital center in the District of Columbia, approved August 
7, 1946 (60 Stat. 896; Public Law 79-648), section 1 of An Act to 
authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to borrow funds 
for capital improvement programs and to amend provisions of law 
relating to Federal Government participation in meeting costs of 
maintaining the Nation's Capital City, approved June 6, 1958 (72 Stat. 
183; Public Law 85-451; D.C. Code, sec. 9-219), section 4 of An Act to 
authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to plan, 
construct, operate, and maintain a sanitary sewer to connect the Dulles 
International Airport with the District of Columbia system, approved 
June 12, 1960 (74 Stat. 211; Public Law 86-515), and sections 723 and 
743(f) of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental 
Reorganization Act of 1973, approved December 24, 1973, as amended (87 
Stat. 821; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321, note; 91 Stat. 
1156; Public Law 95-131; D.C. Code, sec. 9-219, note), including 
interest as required thereby, $384,430,000 from local funds; for the 
purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund accumulated 
deficit as of September 30, 1990, $39,020,000 from local funds, as 
authorized by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Self-
Government and Governmental Reorganization Act, approved December 24, 
1973, as amended (105 Stat. 540; Public Law 102-106; D.C. Code, sec. 
47-321(a)(1); for payment of interest on short-term borrowing, 
$12,000,000 from local funds; for lease payments in accordance with the 
Certificates of Participation involving the land site underlying the 
building located at One Judiciary Square, $7,923,000 from local funds; 
for human resources development, including costs of increased employee 
training, administrative reforms, and an executive compensation system, 
$6,000,000 from local funds); for equipment leases, the Mayor may 
finance $13,127,000 of equipment cost, plus cost of issuance not to 
exceed two percent of the par amount being financed on a lease purchase 
basis with a maturity not to exceed five years: Provided, That $75,000 
is allocated to the Department of Corrections, $8,000,000 for the 
Public Schools, $50,000 for the Public Library, $260,000 for the 
Department of Human Services, $244,000 for the Department of Recreation 
and Parks, and $4,498,000 for the Department of Public Works.

                            ENTERPRISE FUNDS

                       Enterprise and Other Uses

    Enterprises and other uses, $15,725,000 (including for the Cable 
Television Enterprise Fund, established by the Cable Television 
Communications Act of 1981, effective October 22, 1983 (D.C. Law 5-36; 
D.C. Code, sec. 43-1801 et seq.), $2,467,000 (including $2,135,000 from 
local funds and $332,000 from other funds); for the Public Service 
Commission, $4,547,000 (including $4,250,000 from local funds, $117,000 
from Federal funds, and $180,000 from other funds), for the Office of 
the People's Counsel, $2,428,000 from local funds; for the Office of 
Banking and Financial Institutions, $600,000 (including $100,000 from 
local funds and $500,000 from other funds); for the Department of 
Insurance and Securities Regulation, $5,683,000 from other funds.

         Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct, 
$297,310,000 from other funds (including $263,425,000 for the Water and 
Sewer Authority and $33,885,000 for the Washington Aqueduct) of which 
$41,423,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the District's debt 
service fund for repayment of loans and interest incurred for capital 
improvement projects.

               Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board, established by 
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1982, approved December 4, 1981 (95 Stat. 1174, 1175; 
Public Law 97-91), as amended, for the purpose of implementing the Law 
to Legalize Lotteries, Daily Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for 
Charitable Purposes in the District of Columbia, effective March 10, 
1981 (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, secs. 2-2501 et seq. and 22-1516 et 
seq.), $213,500,000: Provided, That the District of Columbia shall 
identify the source of funding for this appropriation title from the 
District's own locally-generated revenues: Provided further, That no 
revenues from Federal sources shall be used to support the operations 
or activities of the Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board.

                             Starplex Fund

    For the Starplex Fund, $5,936,000 from other funds for expenses 
incurred by the Armory Board in the exercise of its powers granted by 
An Act To Establish A District of Columbia Armory Board, and for other 
purposes, approved June 4, 1948 (62 Stat. 339; D.C. Code, sec. 2-301 et 
seq.) and the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 1957, approved 
September 7, 1957 (71 Stat. 619; Public Law 85-300; D.C. Code, sec. 2-
321 et seq.): Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a budget for the 
Armory Board for the forthcoming fiscal year as required by section 
442(b) of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental 
Reorganization Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 824; Public 
Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301(b)).

                         D.C. General Hospital

    For the District of Columbia General Hospital, established by 
Reorganization Order No. 57 of the Board of Commissioners, effective 
August 15, 1953, $97,019,000, of which $44,335,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the general fund and $52,684,000 shall be derived from 
other funds.

                         D.C. Retirement Board

    For the D.C. Retirement Board, established by section 121 of the 
District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979, approved November 
17, 1979 (93 Stat. 866; D.C. Code, sec. 1-711), $16,762,000 from the 
earnings of the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, 
investment, and other fees and administrative expenses of the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board: Provided, That the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board shall provide to the Congress and to the Council of 
the District of Columbia a quarterly report of the allocations of 
charges by fund and of expenditures of all funds: Provided further, 
That the District of Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, 
for transmittal to the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized 
accounting of the planned use of appropriated funds in time for each 
annual budget submission and the actual use of such funds in time for 
each annual audited financial report.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $46,400,000, 
of which $5,400,000 shall be derived by transfer from the general fund.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE 
                               AUTHORITY

    For the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, established by section 101(a) of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995, approved April 17, 1995 (109 Stat. 97; Public Law 104-8), 
$3,220,000.

                             CAPITAL OUTLAY

    For construction projects, $269,330,000 (including $31,100,000 for 
the highway trust fund, $105,485,000 from local funds, and $132,745,000 
in Federal funds), to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
funds for use of each capital project implementing agency shall be 
managed and controlled in accordance with all procedures and 
limitations established under the Financial Management System: Provided 
further, That all funds provided by this appropriation title shall be 
available only for the specific projects and purposes intended: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding the foregoing, all 
authorizations for capital outlay projects, except those projects 
covered by the first sentence of section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1968, approved August 23, 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 
90-495; D.C. Code, sec. 7-134, note), for which funds are provided by 
this appropriation title, shall expire on September 30, 1999, except 
authorizations for projects as to which funds have been obligated in 
whole or in part prior to September 30, 1999: Provided further, That 
upon expiration of any such project authorization the funds provided 
herein for the project shall lapse.

                  DEFICIT REDUCTION AND REVITALIZATION

    For deficit reduction and revitalization, $201,090,000, to be 
deposited into an escrow account held by the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority 
(Authority), which shall allocate the funds to the Mayor, or such other 
District official as the Authority may deem appropriate, at such 
intervals and in accordance with such terms and conditions as the 
Authority considers appropriate: Provided, That these funds shall only 
be used for reduction of the accumulated general fund deficit; capital 
expenditures, including debt service; and management and productivity 
improvements, as allocated by the Authority: Provided further, That no 
funds may be obligated until a plan for their use is approved by the 
Authority: Provided further, That the Authority shall inform the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
Representatives of the approved plans.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Section 101. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act 
for any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 102. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all vouchers 
covering expenditures of appropriations contained in this Act shall be 
audited before payment by the designated certifying official and the 
vouchers as approved shall be paid by checks issued by the designated 
disbursing official.
    Sec. 103. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations in this Act shall be available, when 
authorized by the Mayor, for allowances for privately-owned automobiles 
and motorcycles used for the performance of official duties at rates 
established by the Mayor: Provided, That such rates shall not exceed 
the maximum prevailing rates for such vehicles as prescribed in the 
Federal Property Management Regulations 101-7 (Federal Travel 
Regulations).
    Sec. 105. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for 
expenses of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations 
concerned with the work of the District of Columbia government, when 
authorized by the Mayor: Provided, That the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the District of Columbia Courts may expend such funds 
without authorization by the Mayor.
    Sec. 106. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided, That nothing contained in 
this section shall be construed as modifying or affecting the 
provisions of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the District of Columbia 
Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947, approved March 31, 1956 (70 Stat. 
78; Public Law 84-460; D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 107. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of public assistance without reference to the requirement of 
section 544 of the District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982, 
effective April 6, 1982 (D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Code, sec. 3-205.44), and 
for the non-Federal share of funds necessary to qualify for Federal 
assistance under the Juvenile Delinquency Prevention and Control Act of 
1968, approved July 31, 1968 (82 Stat. 462; Public Law 90-445; 42 
U.S.C. 3801 et seq.).
    Sec. 108. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 109. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be 
used to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the Subcommittee on the District of 
Columbia of the House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, the 
Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management and the District of 
Columbia of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the 
Council of the District of Columbia, or their duly authorized 
representative.
    Sec. 111. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977, 
effective September 23, 1977 (D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 112. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including 
boycott designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 113. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 114. The Mayor shall not borrow any funds for capital projects 
unless the Mayor has obtained prior approval from the Council of the 
District of Columbia, by resolution, identifying the projects and 
amounts to be financed with such borrowings.
    Sec. 115. The Mayor shall not expend any moneys borrowed for 
capital projects for the operating expenses of the District of Columbia 
government.
    Sec. 116. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by reprogramming except pursuant to advance 
approval of the reprogramming granted according to the procedure set 
forth in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
(House Report No. 96-443), which accompanied the District of Columbia 
Appropriation Act, 1980, approved October 30, 1979 (93 Stat. 713; 
Public Law 96-93), as modified in House Report No. 98-265, and in 
accordance with the Reprogramming Policy Act of 1980, effective 
September 16, 1980 (D.C. Law 3-100; D.C. Code, sec. 47-361 et seq.): 
Provided, That for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998 the above 
shall apply except as modified by Public Law 104-8.
    Sec. 117. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of the District of 
Columbia.
    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to procure passenger automobiles as defined in 
the Automobile Fuel Efficiency Act of 1980, approved October 10, 1980 
(94 Stat. 1824; Public Law 96-425; 15 U.S.C. 2001(2)), with an 
Environmental Protection Agency estimated miles per gallon average of 
less than 22 miles per gallon: Provided, That this section shall not 
apply to security, emergency rescue, or armored vehicles.
    Sec. 119. (a) Notwithstanding section 422(7) of the District of 
Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, 
approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, 
sec. 1-242(7)), the City Administrator shall be paid, during any fiscal 
year, a salary at a rate established by the Mayor, not to exceed the 
rate established for Level IV of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 
5315.
    (b) For purposes of applying any provision of law limiting the 
availability of funds for payment of salary or pay in any fiscal year, 
the highest rate of pay established by the Mayor under subsection (a) 
of this section for any position for any period during the last quarter 
of calendar year 1997 shall be deemed to be the rate of pay payable for 
that position for September 30, 1997.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 4(a) of the District of Columbia 
Redevelopment Act of 1945, approved August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 793; 
Public Law 79-592; D.C. Code, sec. 5-803(a)), the Board of Directors of 
the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency shall be paid, 
during any fiscal year, per diem compensation at a rate established by 
the Mayor.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the 
District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization 
Act of 1973, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-
198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(3)), shall apply with respect to the 
compensation of District of Columbia employees: Provided, That for pay 
purposes, employees of the District of Columbia government shall not be 
subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 121. The Director of the Department of Administrative Services 
may pay rentals and repair, alter, and improve rented premises, without 
regard to the provisions of section 322 of the Economy Act of 1932 
(Public Law 72-212; 40 U.S.C. 278a), based upon a determination by the 
Director, that by reason of circumstances set forth in such 
determination, the payment of these rents and the execution of this 
work, without reference to the limitations of section 322, is 
advantageous to the District in terms of economy, efficiency, and the 
District's best interest.
    Sec. 122. No later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the District of Columbia the 
new fiscal year 1998 revenue estimates as of the end of the first 
quarter of fiscal year 1998. These estimates shall be used in the 
budget request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999. The 
officially revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the midyear 
report.
    Sec. 123. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth 
in section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
1183.3), except that the District of Columbia government or any agency 
thereof may renew or extend sole source contracts for which competition 
is not feasible or practical: Provided, That the determination as to 
whether to invoke the competitive bidding process has been made in 
accordance with duly promulgated rules and procedures and said 
determination has been reviewed and approved by the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 124. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public 
Law 99-177), as amended, the term ``program, project, and activity'' 
shall be synonymous with and refer specifically to each account 
appropriating Federal funds in this Act, and any sequestration order 
shall be applied to each of the accounts rather than to the aggregate 
total of those accounts: Provided, That sequestration orders shall not 
be applied to any account that is specifically exempted from 
sequestration by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), 
as amended.
    Sec. 125. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, approved 
December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), as amended, after 
the amounts appropriated to the District of Columbia for the fiscal 
year involved have been paid to the District of Columbia, the Mayor of 
the District of Columbia shall pay to the Secretary of the Treasury, 
within 15 days after receipt of a request therefor from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, such amounts as are sequestered by the order: 
Provided, That the sequestration percentage specified in the order 
shall be applied proportionately to each of the Federal appropriation 
accounts in this Act that are not specifically exempted from 
sequestration by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), 
as amended.
    Sec. 126. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any 
office, agency or entity to expend funds for programs or functions for 
which a reorganization plan is required but has not been approved by 
the Council pursuant to section 422(12) of the District of Columbia 
Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, approved 
December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(12)) and the Governmental Reorganization Procedures Act of 1981, 
effective October 17, 1981 (D.C. Law 4-42; D.C. Code, secs. 1-299.1 to 
1-299.7). Appropriations made by this Act for such programs or 
functions are conditioned on the approval by the Council of the 
required reorganization plans.
    Sec. 127. (a) An entity of the District of Columbia government may 
accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal year 1998 if--
            (1) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the gift 
        or donation: Provided, That the Council of the District of 
        Columbia may accept and use gifts without prior approval by the 
        Mayor; and
            (2) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry out its 
        authorized functions or duties.
    (b) Each entity of the District of Columbia government shall keep 
accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under subsection (a) of this section, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``entity of the 
District of Columbia government'' includes an independent agency of the 
District of Columbia.
    (d) This section shall not apply to the District of Columbia Board 
of Education, which may, pursuant to the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia, accept and use gifts to the public schools 
without prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 128. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979, 
effective March 10, 1981 (D.C. Law 3-171; D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 129. The University of the District of Columbia shall submit 
to the Congress, the Mayor, the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, and the Council of 
the District of Columbia no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after 
the end of each month a report that sets forth--
            (1) current month expenditures and obligations, year-to-
        date expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year 
        expenditure projections versus budget broken out on the basis 
        of control center, responsibility center, and object class, and 
        for all funds, non-appropriated funds, and capital financing;
            (2) a breakdown of FTE positions and all employees for the 
        most current pay period broken out on the basis of control 
        center and responsibility center, for all funds, including 
        capital funds;
            (3) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and 
        the amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
        responsibility center, detailed object, and for all funding 
        sources;
            (4) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
        annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the 
        budget to which the contract is charged broken out on the basis 
        of control center and responsibility center, and contract 
        identifying codes used by the University of the District of 
        Columbia; payments made in the last month and year-to-date, the 
        total amount of the contract and total payments made for the 
        contract and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and 
        specific modifications made to each contract in the last month;
            (5) all reprogramming requests and reports that have been 
        made by the University of the District of Columbia within the 
        last month in compliance with applicable law; and
            (6) changes made in the last month to the organizational 
        structure of the University of the District of Columbia, 
        displaying previous and current control centers and 
        responsibility centers, the names of the organizational 
        entities that have been changed, the name of the staff member 
        supervising each entity affected, and the reasons for the 
        structural change.
    Sec. 130. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, the evaluation process and instruments for evaluating 
District of Columbia Public Schools employees shall be a non-negotiable 
item for collective bargaining purposes.
    Sec. 131. Funds authorized or appropriated to the government of the 
District of Columbia by this or any other act to procure the necessary 
hardware and installation of new software, conversion, testing, and 
training to improve or replace its financial management system are also 
available for the acquisition of accounting and financial management 
services and the leasing of necessary hardware, software or any other 
related goods or services, as determined by the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 132. Section 456 of the District of Columbia Self-Government 
and Governmental Reorganization Act (secs. 47-231 et seq., D.C. Code) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by--
                    (A) striking ``1995'' and inserting ``1998'';
                    (B) striking ``Mayor'' and inserting ``District of 
                Columbia Financial Management and Assistance 
                Authority''; and
                    (C) striking ``Committee on the District of 
                Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
                Reform and Oversight'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by--
                    (A) striking ``1997'' and inserting ``1999'';
                    (B) striking ``Mayor'' and inserting ``Authority''; 
                and
                    (C) striking ``Committee on the District of 
                Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
                Reform and Oversight'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``Committee on the 
        District of Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
        Reform and Oversight'';
            (4) in subsection (c)(1), by--
                    (A) striking ``1995'' and inserting ``1997'';
                    (B) striking ``Mayor'' and inserting ``Chief 
                Financial Officer''; and
                    (C) striking ``Committee on the District of 
                Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
                Reform and Oversight'';
            (5) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by--
                    (A) striking ``1997'' and inserting ``1999'';
                    (B) striking ``Mayor'' and inserting ``Chief 
                Financial Officer''; and
                    (C) striking ``Committee on the District of 
                Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
                Reform and Oversight'';
            (6) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by striking ``Committee on the 
        District of Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
        Reform and Oversight''; and
            (7) in subsection (d)(1), by--
                    (A) striking ``1994'' and inserting ``1997'';
                    (B) striking ``Mayor'' and inserting ``Chief 
                Financial Officer''; and
                    (C) striking ``Committee on the District of 
                Columbia'' and inserting ``Committee on Government 
                Reform and Oversight''.
    Sec. 133. For purposes of the appointment of the head of a 
department of the government of the District of Columbia under section 
11105(a) of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Improvement 
Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, the following rules shall apply:
            (1) After the Mayor notifies the Council under paragraph 
        (1)(A)(ii) of such section of the nomination of an individual 
        for appointment, the Council shall meet to determine whether to 
        confirm or reject the nomination.
            (2) If the Council fails to confirm or reject the 
        nomination during the 7-day period described in paragraph 
        (1)(A)(iii) of such section, the Council shall be deemed to 
        have confirmed the nomination.
            (3) For purposes of paragraph (1)(B) of such section, if 
        the Council does not confirm a nomination (or is not deemed to 
        have confirmed a nomination) during the 30-day period described 
        in such paragraph, the Mayor shall be deemed to have failed to 
        nominate an individual during such period to fill the vacancy 
        in the position of the head of the department.
    Sec. 134. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 135. No funds made available pursuant to any provision of this 
Act shall be used to implement or enforce any system of registration of 
unmarried, cohabiting couples whether they are homosexual, lesbian, or 
heterosexual, including but not limited to registration for the purpose 
of extending employment, health, or governmental benefits to such 
couples on the same basis that such benefits are extended to legally 
married couples; nor shall any funds made available pursuant to any 
provision of this Act otherwise be used to implement or enforce D.C. 
Act 9-188, signed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia on April 15, 
1992.
    Sec. 136. The Emergency Transitional Education Board of Trustees 
shall submit to the Congress, the Mayor, the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, and the 
Council of the District of Columbia no later than fifteen (15) calendar 
days after the end of each month a report that sets forth--
            (1) current month expenditures and obligations, year-to-
        date expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year 
        expenditure projections versus budget broken out on the basis 
        of control center, responsibility center, agency reporting 
        code, and object class, and for all funds, including capital 
        financing;
            (2) a breakdown of FTE positions and staff for the most 
        current pay period broken out on the basis of control center, 
        responsibility center, and agency reporting code within each 
        responsibility center, for all funds, including capital funds;
            (3) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and 
        the amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
        responsibility center, detailed object, and agency reporting 
        code, and for all funding sources;
            (4) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
        annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the 
        budget to which the contract is charged broken out on the basis 
        of control center, responsibility center, and agency reporting 
        code; and contract identifying codes used by the D.C. Public 
        Schools; payments made in the last month and year-to-date, the 
        total amount of the contract and total payments made for the 
        contract and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and 
        specific modifications made to each contract in the last month;
            (5) all reprogramming requests and reports that are 
        required to be, and have been, submitted to the Board of 
        Education; and
            (6) changes made in the last month to the organizational 
        structure of the D.C. Public Schools, displaying previous and 
        current control centers and responsibility centers, the names 
        of the organizational entities that have been changed, the name 
        of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and the 
        reasons for the structural change.
    Sec. 137. (a) In General.--The Emergency Transitional Education 
Board of Trustees of the District of Columbia and the University of the 
District of Columbia shall annually compile an accurate and verifiable 
report on the positions and employees in the public school system and 
the university, respectively. The annual report shall set forth--
            (1) the number of validated schedule A positions in the 
        District of Columbia Public Schools and the University of the 
        District of Columbia for fiscal year 1996, fiscal year 1997, 
        and thereafter on a full-time equivalent basis, including a 
        compilation of all positions by control center, responsibility 
        center, funding source, position type, position title, pay 
        plan, grade, and annual salary; and
            (2) a compilation of all employees in the District of 
        Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of 
        Columbia as of the preceding December 31, verified as to its 
        accuracy in accordance with the functions that each employee 
        actually performs, by control center, responsibility center, 
        agency reporting code, program (including funding source), 
        activity, location for accounting purposes, job title, grade 
        and classification, annual salary, and position control number.
    (b) Submission.--The annual report required by subsection (a) of 
this section shall be submitted to the Congress, the Mayor, the 
District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
Authority, not later than February 15 of each year.
    Sec. 138. (a) No later than October 1, 1997, or within 15 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1998, whichever occurs later, and each succeeding 
year, the Emergency Transitional Education Board of Trustees and the 
University of the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, the Mayor, the District of Columbia Council, 
the Consensus Commission, and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for the public school system and 
the University of the District of Columbia for such fiscal year that is 
in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns 
budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal services, 
respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the Emergency 
Transitional Education Board of Trustees and the University of the 
District of Columbia submit to the Mayor of the District of Columbia 
for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission to the Council of the 
District of Columbia pursuant to section 442 of the District of 
Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act, Public 
Law 93-198, as amended (D.C. Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 139. The Emergency Transitional Education Board of Trustees, 
the Board of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia, 
the Board of Library Trustees, and the Board of Governors of the D.C. 
School of Law shall vote on and approve their respective annual or 
revised budgets before submission to the Mayor of the District of 
Columbia for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission to the Council 
of the District of Columbia in accordance with section 442 of the 
District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization 
Act, Public Law 93-198, as amended (D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), or before 
submitting their respective budgets directly to the Council.
    Sec. 140. (a) Ceiling on Total Operating Expenses.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating 
        expenses for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 1998 
        under the caption ``Division of Expenses'' shall not exceed the 
        lesser of--
                    (A) the sum of the total revenues of the District 
                of Columbia for such fiscal year; or
                    (B) $5,166,304,000 (of which $129,946,000 shall be 
                from intra-District funds), which amount may be 
                increased by the following:
                            (i) proceeds of one-time transactions, 
                        which are expended for emergency or 
                        unanticipated operating or capital needs 
                        approved by the District of Columbia Financial 
                        Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                        Authority; and
                            (ii) additional expenditures which the 
                        Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                        Columbia certifies will produce additional 
                        revenues during such fiscal year at least equal 
                        to 200 percent of such additional expenditures, 
                        and which are approved by the District of 
                        Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
                        Management Assistance.
                    (C) to the extent that the sum of the total 
                revenues of the District of Columbia for such fiscal 
                year exceed the total amount provided for in subsection 
                (B) above, the Chief Financial Officer of the District 
                of Columbia, with the approval of the District of 
                Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
                Assistance Authority, may credit up to ten percent 
                (10%) of the amount of such difference, not to exceed 
                $3,300,000, to a reserve fund which may be expended for 
                operating purposes in future fiscal years, in 
                accordance with the financial plans and budgets for 
                such years.
            (2) Enforcement.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District of Columbia and the District of Columbia Financial 
        Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority shall take 
        such steps as are necessary to assure that the District of 
        Columbia meets the requirements of this section, including the 
        apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of the 
        appropriations and funds made available to the District during 
        fiscal year 1998.
    (b) Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in Ceiling.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Mayor 
        in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District of Columbia during a control year, as defined in 
        section 305(4) of Public Law 104-8, as amended, 109 Stat. 152, 
        may accept, obligate, and expend Federal, private, and other 
        grants received by the District government that are not 
        reflected in the amounts appropriated in this Act.
            (2) Requirement of chief financial officer report and 
        financial responsibility and management assistance authority 
        approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant may be 
        accepted, obligated, or expended pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        until--
                    (A) the Chief Financial Officer of the District 
                submits to the District of Columbia Financial 
                Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority 
                established by Public Law 104-8 (109 Stat. 97) a report 
                setting forth detailed information regarding such 
                grant; and
                    (B) the District of Columbia Financial 
                Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority has 
                reviewed and approved the acceptance, obligation, and 
                expenditure of such grant in accordance with review and 
                approval procedures consistent with the provisions of 
                Public Law 104-8, as amended, the District of Columbia 
                Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act 
                of 1995.
            (3) Prohibition on spending in anticipation of approval or 
        receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the 
        general fund or other funds of the District government in 
        anticipation of the approval or receipt of a grant under 
        paragraph (2)(B) or in anticipation of the approval or receipt 
        of a Federal, private, or other grant not subject to such 
        paragraph.
            (4) Monthly reports.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District shall prepare a monthly report setting forth detailed 
        information regarding all Federal, private, and other grants 
        subject to this subsection. Each such report shall be submitted 
        to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the 
        month covered by the report.
    Sec. 141. Section 145(a)(2) of the District of Columbia Retirement 
Reform Act, approved November 17, 1979 (93 Stat. 882; D.C. Code 1-
725(a)(2)) is amended by adding subsections (a)(2)(A) and (a)(2)(B) to 
read as follows:
    ``(A) Up to 50 police officers and up to 50 Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services members who were hired before February 14, 1980, and 
who retire on disability before the end of calendar year 1998 shall be 
excluded from the computation of the rate of disability retirements 
under subsection 145(a) of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform 
Act of 1979 (93 Stat. 882; D.C. Code, sec. 1-725(a)), for purposes of 
reducing the authorized Federal payment to the District of Columbia 
Police Officers and Fire Fighters' Retirement Fund pursuant to 
subsection 145(c) of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 
1979.
    ``(B) The Mayor, within 30 days after the enactment of this 
provision, shall engage an enrolled actuary, to be paid by the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board, and shall comply with the requirements of 
section 142(d) and section 144(d) of the District of Columbia 
Retirement Reform Act of 1979 (Public Law 96-122, approved November 17, 
1979; D.C. Code, secs. 1-722(d) and 1-724(d)).''.
    Sec. 142. The District of Columbia Emergency Transitional Education 
Board of Trustees shall, subject to the contract approval provisions of 
Public Law 104-8--
            (A) develop a comprehensive plan to identify and accomplish 
        energy conservation measures to achieve maximum cost-effective 
        energy and water savings;
            (B) enter into innovative financing and contractual 
        mechanisms including, but not limited to, utility demand-side 
        management programs and energy savings performance contracts 
        and water conservation performance contracts: Provided, That 
        the terms of such contracts do not exceed twenty-five years; 
        and
            (C) permit and encourage each department or agency and 
        other instrumentality of the District of Columbia to 
        participate in programs conducted by any gas, electric or water 
        utility of the management of electricity or gas demand or for 
        energy or water conservation.
    Sec. 143. The District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental 
Reorganization Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 774; D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-201 et seq.), is amended by adding a new section 445a to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 445A. SPECIAL MASTERS' BUDGETS.

    ``All Special Masters appointed by the District of Columbia 
Superior Court or the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia Circuit to any agency of the District of Columbia government 
shall prepare and annually submit to the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, for inclusion in 
the annual budget, annual estimates of expenditures and appropriations. 
Such annual estimates shall be approved by the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority and the 
Council of the District of Columbia pursuant to section 202 of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995, approved April 17, 1995 (109 Stat. 109; D.C. Code, sec. 
47-392.2).''
    Sec. 144. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 12 of the 
Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056, note) 
in carrying out the protection of the President and Vice President of 
the United States, pursuant to section 3056(a) of Title 18 of the 
United States Code, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to 
reimburse the District of Columbia government for the utilization of 
law enforcement services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the 
District of Columbia in furtherance of such protection. All claims for 
such reimbursement by the District of Columbia government will be 
submitted to the Secretary of the Treasury on a quarterly basis.
    (b) Section 1537 of Title 31 of the United States Code is repealed.
    Sec. 145. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available, $5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the National Park 
Service and shall be available only for the United States Park Police 
operations in the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 146. The District government shall maintain for fiscal year 
1998 the same funding levels as provided in fiscal year 1997 for 
homeless services in the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 147. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority and the Chief Executive Officer of the 
District of Columbia public schools are hereby directed to report to 
the Appropriations Committees of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and the 
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
Representatives not later than April 1, 1998, on all measures necessary 
and steps to be taken to ensure that the District's public schools open 
on time to begin the 1998-99 academic year.
    This Act may be cited as the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1998.
                                                       Calendar No. 155

105th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1156

                          [Report No. 105-75]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia 
    and other activities chargeable in whole or in part against the 
  revenues of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     1998, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 9, 1997

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar