[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1282 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 169
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1282

                          [Report No. 106-87]

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 24, 1999

   Mr. Campbell, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $150,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate, $133,168,000.

        Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$35,561,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this 
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be 
used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service 
appropriations for Information Systems.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury, $30,483,000.

                Inspector General for Tax Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for 
police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not 
to exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $111,340,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $27,681,000: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure personal 
services contracts.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, as follows:
            (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $181,000,000; of 
        which $17,847,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, 
        Tobacco and Firearms, including $3,000,000 for administering 
        the Gang Resistance Education and Training program, $1,608,000 
        for an explosives repository clearinghouse, $12,600,000 for the 
        integrated violence reduction strategy, and $639,000 for 
        building security; of which $21,950,000 shall be available to 
        the United States Secret Service, including $5,854,000 for the 
        protective program, $2,014,000 for the protective research 
        program, $5,886,000 for the workspace program, $5,000,000 for 
        counterfeiting investigations, and $3,196,000 for forensic and 
        related support of investigations of missing and exploited 
        children, of which $1,196,000 shall be available as a grant for 
        activities related to the investigations of exploited children 
        and shall remain available until expended; of which $52,774,000 
        shall be available for the United States Customs Service, 
        including $4,300,000 for conducting pre-hiring polygraph 
        examinations, $2,000,000 for technology for the detection of 
        undeclared outbound currency, $9,000,000 for non-intrusive 
        mobile personal inspection technology, $4,952,000 for land 
        border automation equipment, $8,000,000 for agent and inspector 
        relocation: Provided, That $3,000,000 shall not be available 
        for obligation until September 30, 2000, $5,735,000 for 
        laboratory modernization, $2,400,000 for cybersmuggling, 
        $5,430,000 for Hardline/Gateway equipment, $2,500,000 for the 
        training program, $3,640,000 to maintain fiscal year 1998 
        equipment, and $4,817,000 for investigative counter-narcotics 
        and money laundering operations; of which $28,366,000 shall be 
        available for Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement; of which 
        $1,863,000 shall be available for the Financial Crimes 
        Enforcement Network, including $600,000 for GATEWAY, $300,000 
        to expand data mining technology, $500,000 to continue the 
        magnitude of money laundering study, $200,000 to enhance 
        electronic filing of SARS and other BSA databases, and $263,000 
        for technical advances for GATEWAY; of which $9,200,000 shall 
        be available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for 
        construction of two firearms ranges at the Artesia Center: 
        Provided, That these funds shall not be available for 
        obligation until September 30, 2000; and of which $49,000,000 
        shall be available to the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy Special Forfeiture Fund to support a national media 
        campaign, as authorized in the Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 
        1998: Provided further, That these funds shall not be available 
        for obligation until September 30, 2000;
            (2) As authorized by section 32401, $13,000,000 to the 
        Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement 
        through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts to local 
        governments for Gang Resistance Education and Training: 
        Provided, That notwithstanding sections 32401 and 310001, such 
        funds shall be allocated to State and local law enforcement and 
        prevention organizations.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and 
enhancing community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed 
$9,500 for official reception and representation expenses; room and 
board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$80,114,000, of which up to $16,511,000 for materials and support costs 
of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept 
and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for the following: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation, except that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary 
for law enforcement training activities in foreign countries undertaken 
pursuant to section 801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death 
Penalty Act of 1996, Public Law 104-32; training of private sector 
security officials on a space-available basis with reimbursement of 
actual costs to this appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal 
personnel to attend course development meetings and training sponsored 
by the Center: Provided further, That the Center is authorized to 
obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from agencies 
receiving training sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year 
shall not exceed total budgetary resources available at the end of the 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center is authorized to provide training for the Gang 
Resistance Education and Training program to Federal and non-Federal 
personnel at any facility in partnership with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$21,611,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$200,054,000, of which not to exceed $10,635,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002, for information systems modernization 
initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 812 vehicles for police-
type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; services of expert 
witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the Director; for 
payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an 
assignment to the National Response Team during the investigation of a 
bombing or arson incident requires an employee to work 16 hours or more 
per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to 
exceed $15,000 for official reception and representation expenses; for 
training of State and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the training and 
acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; 
and provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, 
with or without reimbursement, $569,225,000, of which $38,200,000 may 
be used for the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative; of which not 
to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' 
fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which $1,000,000 shall 
be available for the equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or 
aircraft available for official use by a State or local law enforcement 
agency if the conveyance will be used in joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, 
supplies, and other similar costs of State and local law enforcement 
personnel, including sworn officers and support personnel, that are 
incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms: Provided, That no funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities of 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other agencies or 
Departments in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated herein shall be available for salaries or administrative 
expenses in connection with consolidating or centralizing, within the 
Department of the Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of 
acquisition and disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms 
licensees: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer 
or employee of the United States to implement an amendment or 
amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or 
relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 
5300.11 as it existed on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or 
act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities 
under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be 
available to investigate and act upon applications filed by 
corporations for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That no funds in this Act may be used 
to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any State or local authority 
who has obtained similar equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy 
unless the State or local authority agrees to return that equipment or 
to repay that grant or subsidy to the Federal Government: Provided 
further, That no funds under this Act may be used to electronically 
retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name 
or any personal identification code.

                     United States Customs Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 550 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $40,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service, $1,670,747,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject 
to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be 
derived from that Account; of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall 
be available for payment for rental space in connection with 
preclearance operations; not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available 
until expended for research, of which $900,000 shall be provided to a 
land grant university in North and/or South Dakota to conduct a 
research program on the bilateral United States/Canadian bilateral 
trade of agricultural commodities and products; of which $100,000 shall 
be provided for the child pornography tipline; of which $200,000 shall 
be for Project Alert; not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until 
expended for conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081, 
and; up to $8,000,000 shall be available until expended for the 
procurement of automation infrastructure items, including hardware, 
software, and installation; up to $5,400,000, to be available until 
expended, may be transferred to the Treasury-wide Systems and Capital 
Investments Programs account for an international trade data system; 
and up to $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, for repairs 
to Customs facilities: Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the Hector International Airport in Fargo, 
North Dakota shall be designated an International Port of Entry: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
fiscal year aggregate overtime limitation prescribed in subsection 
5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall 
be $30,000.

                   harbor maintenance fee collection

                     (including transfer authority)

    For Administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

  operation, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs, the operations of which include the following: the 
interdiction of narcotics and other goods; the provision of support to 
Customs and other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement 
or administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts, $108,688,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 2000 without the prior approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $181,383,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for systems modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein 
from the General Fund for fiscal year 2000 shall be reduced by not more 
than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2000 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$176,983,000, and in addition, $20,000, to be derived from the Oil 
Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative 
and personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as 
authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; programs to match 
information returns and tax returns; management services; rent and 
utilities; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates 
as may be determined by the Commissioner, $3,291,945,000, of which up 
to $3,950,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, 
and of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; issuing technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
$3,305,090,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2002, for research and, of which not to 
exceed $150,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses associated with hosting the Inter-American Center of Tax 
Administration (CIAT) 2000 Conference.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $144,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997.

                          information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,450,100,000.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Sec. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
     Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 103. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information.
    Sec. 104. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the 
improvement of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and 
staff to improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigators in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 739 vehicles for police-type use, 
of which 675 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is obtained in 
advance from the Committees on Appropriations; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, $638,816,000.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $4,923,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary of the 
Treasury in connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal 
agency or a Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances 
remaining in the Fund on September 30, 2000, shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
     Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
     Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 2000 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
     Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
Act made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, United States Customs Service, and United States Secret 
Service may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase 
or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector 
General, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Financial 
Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred 
between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. Of the funds available for the purchase of law 
enforcement vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of 
the Treasury certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury 
bureau is consistent with Departmental vehicle management principles: 
Provided, That the Secretary may delegate this authority to the 
Assistant Secretary for Management.
    Sec. 116. Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments for Employees of 
the Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. 
During the period from October 1, 1999 through January 1, 2003, the 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration is authorized to 
offer voluntary separation incentives in order to provide the necessary 
flexibility to carry out the plan to establish and reorganize the 
Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (``the 
Office'' hereafter).
    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``employee'' means an 
employee (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105) who is employed by the Office 
serving under an appointment without time limitation, and has been 
currently employed by the Office or the Internal Revenue Service or the 
Office of Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury for a 
continuous period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
            (1) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system;
            (2) an employee having a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under the applicable retirement system referred to in paragraph 
        (1);
            (3) an employee who is in receipt of a specific notice of 
        involuntary separation for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            (4) an employee who has previously received any voluntary 
        separation incentive payment by the Federal Government under 
        this section or any other authority and has not repaid such 
        payment;
            (5) an employee covered by statutory reemployment rights 
        who is on transfer to another organization; or
            (6) any employee who, during the 24-month period preceding 
        the date of separation, has received a recruitment or 
        relocation bonus under 5 U.S.C. 5753 or who, within the 12-
        month period preceding the date of separation, received a 
        retention allowance under 5 U.S.C. 5754.
    (b) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) In general.--The Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
        Administration may pay voluntary separation incentive payments 
        under this section to any employee to the extent necessary to 
        organize the Office so as to perform the duties specified in 
        the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 
        1998, Pub. L. 105-206.
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the 
                employee's separation;
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations available for 
                the payment of the basic pay of the employees of the 
                Office;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                            (i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 5 
                        U.S.C. 5595(c); or
                            (ii) an amount determined by the Treasury 
                        Inspector General for Tax Administration, not 
                        to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may not be made except in the case of any 
                qualifying employee who voluntarily separates (whether 
                by retirement or resignation) before January 1, 2003;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under 5 U.S.C. 5595 based on any other 
                separation.
    (c) Additional Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
        chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the Office shall 
        remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the 
        Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil 
        Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 
        percent of the final basic pay of each employee who is covered 
        under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, 
        United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation incentive 
        has been paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--In paragraph (1), the term ``final basic 
        pay'', with respect to an employee, means the total amount of 
        basic pay which would be payable for a year of service by such 
        employee, computed using the employee's final rate of basic 
        pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-time basis, with 
        appropriate adjustment therefor.
    (d) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--An 
individual who has received a voluntary separation incentive payment 
under this section and accepts any employment for compensation with the 
Government of the United States, or who works for any agency of the 
United States Government through a personal services contract, within 5 
years after the date of the separation on which the payment is based, 
shall be required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to the Office.
    (e) Effect on Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration Employment Levels.--
            (1) Intended effect.--Voluntary separations under this 
        section are not intended to necessarily reduce the total number 
        of full-time equivalent positions in the Office.
            (2) Use of voluntary separations.--The Office may redeploy 
        or use the full-time equivalent positions vacated by voluntary 
        separations under this section to make other positions 
        available to more critical locations or more critical 
        occupations.
    Sec. 117. Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments for Employees of 
the Chicago Financial Center of the Financial Management Service. (a) 
Authority.--During the period from October 1, 1999 through January 31, 
2000, the Commissioner of the Financial Management Service (FMS) of the 
Department of the Treasury is authorized to offer voluntary separation 
incentives in order to provide the necessary flexibility to carry out 
the closure of the Chicago Financial Center (CFC) in a manner which the 
Commissioner shall deem most efficient, equitable to employees, and 
cost effective to the Government.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``employee'' means an 
employee (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105) who is employed by FMS at CFC 
under an appointment without time limitation, and has been so employed 
continuously for a period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
            (1) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system;
            (2) an employee with a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under the retirement systems referred to in paragraph (1) or 
        another retirement system for employees of the Government;
            (3) an employee who is in receipt of a specific notice of 
        involuntary separation for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            (4) an employee who has previously received any voluntary 
        separation incentive payment from an agency or instrumentality 
        of the Government of the United States under any authority and 
        has not repaid such payment;
            (5) an employee covered by statutory reemployment rights 
        who is on transfer to another organization; or
            (6) an employee who during the 24 month period preceding 
        the date of separation has received and not repaid a 
        recruitment or relocation bonus under section 5753 of Title 5, 
        United States Code, or who, within the twelve month period 
        preceding the date of separation, has received and not repaid a 
        retention allowance under section 5754 of that Title.
    (c) Agency Plan; Approval.--
            (1) The Secretary, Department of the Treasury, prior to 
        obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive 
        payments, shall submit to the Office of Management and Budget a 
        strategic plan outlining the intended use of such incentive 
        payments and a proposed organizational chart for the agency 
        once such incentive payments have been completed.
            (2) The agency's plan under subsection (1) shall include--
                    (A) the specific positions and functions to be 
                reduced or eliminated;
                    (B) a proposed coverage for offers of incentives;
                    (C) the time period during which incentives may be 
                paid;
                    (D) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered; and
                    (E) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions.
            (3) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall review the agency's plan and approve or disapprove such 
        plan, and may make appropriate modifications in the plan 
        including waivers of the reduction in agency employment levels 
        required by this Act.
    (d) Authority to Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) A voluntary separation incentive payment under this Act 
        may be paid by the agency head to an employee only in 
        accordance with the strategic plan under section (c).
            (2) A voluntary incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be offered to agency employees on the 
                basis of organizational unit, occupational series or 
                level, geographic location, other nonpersonal factors, 
                or an appropriate combination of such factors;
                    (B) shall be paid in a lump sum after the 
                employee's separation;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                            (i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 
                        section 5595(c) of title 5, United States Code, 
                        if the employee were entitled to payment under 
                        such section (without adjustment for any 
                        previous payment made); or
                            (ii) an amount determined by the agency 
                        head, not to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may be made only in the case of an employee who 
                voluntarily separates (whether by retirement or 
                resignation) under the provisions of this Act;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation of any other type of 
                Government benefit;
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation; and
                    (G) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employee.
    (e) Eligibility for Payments.--Payments under this section may be 
made to any qualifying employee who voluntarily separates, whether by 
retirement or resignation, between October 1, 1999 and January 31, 
2000.
    (f) Effect on Subsequent Employment With the Government.--An 
individual who has received a voluntary separation incentive payment 
under this section and accepts any employment for compensation with any 
agency or instrumentality of the Government of the United States within 
5 years after the date of the separation on which the payment is based 
shall be required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to FMS.
    (g) Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In addition to any other payments which it is required 
        to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5, United States Code, FMS shall remit to the office of 
        Personnel Management for deposit in the Treasury to the credit 
        of Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal 
        to 15 percent of the final annual basic pay for each employee 
        covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5 United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation 
        incentive has been paid under this section.
            (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term ``final 
        basic pay'' with respect to an employee, means the total amount 
        of basic pay which would be payable for a year of service by 
        such employee, computed using the employee's final rate of 
        basic pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-time 
        basis, with appropriate adjustment therefor.
    (h) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) The total number of funded employee positions in the 
        agency shall be reduced by one position for each vacancy 
        created by the separation of any employee who has received, or 
        is due to receive, a voluntary separation incentive payment 
        under this Act. For the purposes of this subsection, positions 
        shall be counted on a full-time equivalent basis.
            (2) The President, through the Office of Management and 
        Budget, shall monitor the agency and take any action necessary 
        to ensure that the requirement of this section are met.
            (3) At the request of the Secretary, Department of the 
        Treasury, the Office of Management and Budget may waive the 
        reduction in total number of funded employee positions required 
        by subsection (1) if it believes the agency plan required by 
        section (c) satisfactorily demonstrates that the positions 
        would better be used to reallocate occupations or reshape the 
        workforce and to produce a more cost-effective result.
    Sec. 118. Enforcement of Certain Anti-Terrorism Judgments. (a) 
Definition.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1603(b) of title 28, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3) by striking the period and 
                inserting a semicolon and ``and'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) 
                as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
                    (C) by striking ``(b)'' through ``entity--'' and 
                inserting the following:
    ``(b) An `agency or instrumentality of a foreign state' means--
            ``(1) any entity--''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) for purposes of sections 1605(a)(7) and 1610 (a)(7) 
        and (f), any entity as defined under subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
        of paragraph (1), and subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) shall 
        not apply.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--Section 1391(f)(3) 
        of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking 
        ``1603(b)'' and inserting ``1603(b)(1)''.
    (b) Enforcement of Judgments.--Section 1610(f) of title 28, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``(including 
                any agency or instrumentality or such state)'' and 
                inserting ``(including any agency or instrumentality of 
                such state)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(C) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, moneys due from 
or payable by the United States (including any agency, subdivision or 
instrumentality thereof) to any state against which a judgment is 
pending under section 1605(a)(7) shall be subject to attachment and 
execution, in like manner and to the same extent as if the United 
States were a private person.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), upon determining on an asset-
by-asset basis that a waiver is necessary in the national security 
interest, the President may waive this subsection in connection with 
(and prior to the enforcement of) any judicial order directing 
attachment in aid of execution or execution against the principal 
office of a foreign mission to the United States used for diplomatic or 
related purposes, or any funds held by or in the name of such foreign 
mission determined by the President to be necessary to satisfy actual 
operating expenses of such principal office.
    ``(B) A waiver under this paragraph shall not apply to--
            ``(i) the principal office of a foreign mission if such 
        office has been used for any nondiplomatic purpose (including 
        as commercial rental property) by either the foreign state or 
        by the United States, or to the proceeds of such nondiplomatic 
        purpose; or
            ``(ii) if any asset of such principal office is sold or 
        otherwise transferred for value to a third party, the proceeds 
        of such sale or transfer.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 117(d) of the 
Treasury Department Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 
Stat. 2681-492) is repealed.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to any claim for which a foreign state is not immune under 
section 1605(a)(7) of title 28, United States Code, arising before, on, 
or after the date of enactment of this Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                   Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $93,436,000, of which $64,436,000 
shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 2000: Provided, 
That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to 
be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of 
mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act 
shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging 
any officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 2000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2000''.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; 
$250,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President, $52,444,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $9,260,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $810,000, to remain available until 
expended for required maintenance, safety and health issues, and 
continued preventative maintenance.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,617,000.

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$345,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,840,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$4,032,000.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,997,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles $39,198,000, of which $8,806,000 shall be 
available for a capital investment plan which provides for the 
continued modernization of the information technology infrastructure.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB), including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $63,495,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 
of title 44, United States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 
U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for 
which appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
the Office of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of 
reviewing any agricultural marketing orders or any activities or 
regulations under the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available for the Office of Management and 
Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of the transcript 
of actual testimony of witnesses, except for testimony of officials of 
the Office of Management and Budget, before the Committees on 
Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their 
subcommittees: Provided further, That the preceding shall not apply to 
printed hearings released by the Committees on Appropriations or the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs: Provided further, That from within 
existing funds provided under this heading, the President may establish 
a National Intellectual Property Coordination Center.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to Division C, title VII, of 
Public Law 105-277; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in 
the provision of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, 
research, or public organizations or agencies, with or without 
reimbursement; $21,963,000, of which up to $600,000 shall be available 
for the evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Act: Provided, That the 
Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, 
both real and personal, public and private, without fiscal year 
limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
Office.

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center, $31,100,000, which shall remain available until expended, 
consisting of $2,100,000 for policy research and evaluation, 
$16,000,000 for counternarcotics research and development projects, and 
$13,000,000 for the continued operation of the technology transfer 
program: Provided, That the $16,000,000 for counternarcotics research 
and development projects shall be available for transfer to other 
Federal departments or agencies.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $188,277,000 
for drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for 
each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
no less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities, which shall be obligated within 
120 days of the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a 
rate to be determined by the Director: Provided further, That of this 
latter amount, $1,800,000 shall be used for auditing services: Provided 
further, That, hereafter, of the amount appropriated for fiscal year 
2000 or any succeeding fiscal year for the High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area Program, the funds to be obligated or expended during 
such fiscal year for programs addressing the treatment or prevention of 
drug use as part of the approved strategy for a designated High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) shall not be less than the 
funds obligated or expended for such programs during fiscal year 1999 
for each designated HIDTA.

                        special forfeiture fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 105-277, $127,500,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such funds may be 
transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to carry out such 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $96,500,000 
shall be to support a national media campaign, as authorized in the 
Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998: Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided for the support of the national media campaign may 
be obligated until ONDCP has submitted for written approval to the 
Committee on Appropriations the evaluation and results of phase II of 
the campaign: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $30,000,000 
shall be to continue a program of matching grants to drug-free 
communities, as authorized in the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $1,000,000 shall be 
available to the Director for transfer as grants to State and local 
agencies or non-profit organizations for the National Drug Court 
Institute.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28, $2,657,000.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $38,175,000, of which no 
less than $4,866,500 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, $23,681,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to 
section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act 
of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), the revenues and collections 
deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of 
real property management and related activities not otherwise provided 
for, including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally 
owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of 
Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies 
(including space adjustments and telecommunications relocation 
expenses) in connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of 
space; contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing 
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration of federally owned 
buildings including grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and 
safeguarding of sites; maintenance, preservation, demolition, and 
equipment; acquisition of buildings and sites by purchase, 
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options 
to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of federally 
owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects by 
contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings (including 
equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, interest, and 
any other obligations for public buildings acquired by installment 
purchase and purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of 
$5,140,000,000, of which: (1) $76,979,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction of additional projects at locations and at 
maximum construction improvement costs (including funds for sites and 
expenses and associated design and construction services) as follows:
    New construction:
            Maryland:
                    Montgomery County, FDA Consolidation, $35,000,000
            Michigan:
                    Sault Sainte Marie, Border Station, $8,263,000
            Montana:
                    Roosville, Border Station, $753,000
                    Sweetgrass, Border Station, $11,480,000
            Texas:
                    Fort Hancock, Border Station, $277,000
            Washington:
                    Oroville, Border Station, $11,206,000
            Nationwide:
                    Non-prospectus, $10,000,000:
Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a 
greater amount: Provided further, That all funds for direct 
construction projects shall expire on September 30, 2001, and remain in 
the Federal Buildings Fund except for funds for projects as to which 
funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in part 
prior to such date: Provided further, That of the funds provided for 
non-prospectus construction, $1,974,000 shall be available until 
expended for acquisition, lease, construction, and equipping of 
flexiplace telecommuting centers: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided under this heading in Public Law 104-208, $20,782,000 are 
rescinded; (2) $624,869,000 shall remain available until expended, for 
repairs and alterations which includes associated design and 
construction services: Provided, That funds made available in this Act 
or any previous Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and 
Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by 
project as follows, except each project may be increased by an amount 
not to exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the 
Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount:
    Repairs and alterations:
            Alabama:
                    Montgomery, Frank M. Johnson, Jr., Federal 
                Building--U.S. Courthouse, $11,606,000
            Alaska:
                    Anchorage, Federal Building--U.S. Courthouse Annex, 
                $21,098,000
            California:
                    Menlo Park, USGS Building 1, $6,831,000
                    Menlo Park, USGS Building 2, $5,284,000
                    Sacramento, Moss Federal Building--U.S. Courthouse, 
                $7,948,000
                    District of Columbia:
                    Interior Building (Phase 1) $1,100,000
                    Main Justice Building (Phase 2), $47,226,000
                    State Department Building (Phase 2), $10,511,000
            Maryland:
                    Baltimore, Metro West Building, $36,705,000
                    Woodlawn, Social Security Administration Annex, 
                $25,890,000
            Minnesota:
                    Ft. Snelling, Bishop H. Whipple Federal Building, 
                $10,989,000
            New Mexico:
                    Albuquerque, Federal Building--500 Gold Avenue, 
                $8,537,000
            Ohio:
                    Cleveland, Celebrezze Federal Building, $7,234,000
            Nationwide:
                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $16,000,000
                    Energy Program, $16,000,000
                    Design Program, $17,715,000
                    Elevators--Various Buildings, $24,195,000
                    Basic Repairs and Alterations, $350,000,000:
Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or 
used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects 
shall expire on September 30, 2001, and remain in the Federal Buildings 
Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects and $1,600,000 shall be available for the repairs and 
alterations of the Kansas City Federal Courthouse at 811 Grand Avenue, 
Kansas City, Missouri; (3) $205,668,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain 
available until expended; (4) $2,782,186,000 for rental of space which 
shall remain available until expended; and (5) $1,590,183,000 for 
building operations which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall not be available for expenses of any construction, 
repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if 
required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been 
approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each project 
for required expenses for the development of a proposed prospectus: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund 
may be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts 
necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government ownership or 
control as may be appropriate to enable the United States Secret 
Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
shall be available from such revenues and collections: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 shall be available for 
the Plains States De-population Symposium: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund 
during fiscal year 2000, excluding reimbursements under section 
210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of $5,140,000,000 shall remain in 
the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                         policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide 
responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $120,198,000, of which 
$12,758,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
the funds provided, $2,750,000 shall be available for GSA to enter into 
a memorandum of understanding with the North Dakota State University to 
establish a Virtual Archive Storage Terminal.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,858,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,241,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

          general services administration--general provisions

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2000 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2001 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2001 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay 
the rate per square foot assessment for space and services as 
determined by the General Services Administration in compliance with 
the Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance 
of pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to 
the extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', claims against the Government 
of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in 
other construction projects with prior notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    Sec. 408. Funds made available for new construction projects under 
the heading ``Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
Revenue'' in Public Law 104-208 shall remain available until expended 
so long as funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole 
or in part prior to September 30, 1999.
    Sec. 409. The Federal building located at 220 East Rosser Avenue in 
Bismarck, North Dakota, is hereby designated as the ``William L. Guy 
Federal Building, Post Office and United States Courthouse''. Any 
reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper or other record of 
the United States to the Federal building herein referred to shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the ``William L. Guy Federal Building, Post 
Office and United States Courthouse''.
    Sec. 410. From the funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', $59,203,500 
shall not be available for rental of space and $59,203,500 shall not be 
available for building operations.

   Federal Payment to Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
                National Environmental Policy Foundation

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Trust Fund, to be available for the purposes of 
Public Law 102-252, $1,494,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $27,422,000 together with not to exceed 
$2,430,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals 
to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund 
in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and archived Federal records and related activities, as provided by 
law, and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $179,738,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide 
adequate storage for holdings.

              archives facilities repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $21,518,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     records center revolving fund

    (a) There is hereby established in the Treasury a revolving fund to 
be available for expenses and equipment necessary to provide for 
storage and related services for all temporary and pre-archival Federal 
records, which are to be stored or stored at Federal National and 
Regional Records Centers by agencies and other instrumentalities of the 
Federal government. The Fund shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation for expenses necessary for operation of these activities.
    (b) Start-Up Capital.--
            (1) There is appropriated $22,000,000 as initial 
        capitalization of the Fund.
            (2) In addition, the initial capital of the Fund shall 
        include the fair and reasonable value at the Fund's inception 
        of the inventories, equipment, receivables, and other assets, 
        less the liabilities, transferred to the Fund. The Archivist of 
        the United States is authorized to accept inventories, 
        equipment, receivables and other assets from other Federal 
        entities that were used to provide for storage and related 
        services for temporary and pre-archival Federal records.
    (c) User Charges.--The Fund shall be credited with user charges 
received from other Federal government accounts as payment for 
providing personnel, storage, materials, supplies, equipment, and 
services as authorized by subsection (a). Such payments may be made in 
advance or by way of reimbursement. The rates charged will return in 
full the expenses of operation, including reserves for accrued annual 
leave, worker's compensation, depreciation of capitalized equipment and 
shelving, and amortization of information technology software and 
systems.
    (d) Funds Returned to Miscellaneous Receipts of the Department of 
the Treasury.--
            (1) In addition to funds appropriated to and assets 
        transferred to the Fund in subsection (b), an amount not to 
        exceed 4 percent of the total annual income may be retained in 
        the Fund as an operating reserve or for the replacement or 
        acquisition of capital equipment, including shelving, and the 
        improvement and implementation of NARA's financial management, 
        information technology, and other support systems.
            (2) Funds in excess of the 4 percent at the close of each 
        fiscal year shall be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States as miscellaneous receipts.
    (e) Reporting Requirement.--The National Archives and Records 
Administration shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations and Government Reform of the House of 
Representatives on the operation of the Records Center Revolving Fund.

        National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$6,250,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-277, $3,800,000 
are rescinded: Provided further, That the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, 
section 101(h), of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended in Title IV, 
under the heading ``National Historical Publications and Records 
Commission, Grants Program'' by striking the proviso.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to 
exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$9,071,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $91,584,000; 
and in addition $95,486,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs, of which $4,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems: Provided, 
That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the 
authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 
8348(a)(1)(B) and 8909(g) of title 5, United States Code: Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of 
Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, accept donations of 
money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,645,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $9,689,000.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $34,179,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
     Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 2000 for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the 
Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has 
within 90 days after his release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still 
qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not been 
restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 509. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2000 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2000 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2001, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 510. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 511. Inventory of Federal Grant Programs. The Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall prepare an inventory of existing 
Federal grant programs after consulting each agency that administers 
Federal grant programs including formula funds, competitive grant 
funds, block grant funds, and direct payments. The inventory shall 
include the name of the program, a copy of relevant statutory and 
regulatory guidelines, the funding level in fiscal year 1999, a list of 
the eligibility criteria both statutory and regulatory, and a copy of 
the application form. The Director shall submit the inventory no later 
than six months after enactment to the Committees on Appropriations and 
relevant authorizing committees.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2000 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 604. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 605. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is 
actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 606. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 607. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13101 
        (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 611. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and 
such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of 
special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 
1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property 
owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may 
take the same actions as the Administrator of General Services may take 
under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto 
penal consequences under the authority and within the limits provided 
in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 613. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2000, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 614 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 1999, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 2000, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable 
        wage schedule in accordance with such section 614; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2000, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2000 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2000 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in fiscal year 1999 under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1999, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 1999, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1999.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 614. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. For the 
purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall include the entire 
suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well as any other space 
used primarily by the individual or the use of which is directly 
controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 615. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, 
contract, or other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated 
in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2000 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of 
        the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
        intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 618. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2000 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 619. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including 
employees of the Executive Office of the President, not directly 
responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and 
duties: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family 
of the President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State 
of a foreign country or their designees, persons providing assistance 
to the President for official purposes, or other individuals so 
designated by the President.
    Sec. 620. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines 
that noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act. Any waiver granted by the Chief Information Officer shall 
be reported to the Office of Management and Budget, and copies shall be 
provided to Congress.
    Sec. 621. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or merchandise mined, 
produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, as 
determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1307).
    Sec. 622. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 623. Section 627(b) of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in section 101(h) of division A 
of Public Law 105-277) is amended by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and 
inserting the following: ``Effective on the date of the enactment of 
this Act and thereafter, and notwithstanding''.
    Sec. 624. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or 
his designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or 
persons with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the 
Executive Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are 
themselves subject to a program of individual random drug testing.
    Sec. 625. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 626. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 2000 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other 
nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, form, or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, 
or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities 
created by Executive Order No. 12958; section 7211 of title 5, United 
States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 
10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); 
the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et 
seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 
798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by said Executive order and listed statutes are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is 
to be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an 
intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an employee 
or officer of the United States Government, may contain provisions 
appropriate to the particular activity for which such document is to be 
used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the 
person will not disclose any classified information received in the 
course of such activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the 
United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it 
clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress or to an authorized 
official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are 
essential to reporting a substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 627. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 628. (a) In General.--For calendar year 2001, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall prepare and submit to 
Congress, with the budget submitted under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, an accounting statement and associated report 
containing--
            (1) an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits 
        (including quantifiable and nonquantifiable effects) of Federal 
        rules and paperwork, to the extent feasible--
                    (A) in the aggregate;
                    (B) by agency and agency program; and
                    (C) by major rule;
            (2) an analysis of impacts of Federal regulation on State, 
        local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and 
        economic growth; and
            (3) recommendations for reform.
    (b) Notice.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide public notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
statement and report under subsection (a) before the statement and 
report are submitted to Congress.
    (c) Guidelines.--To implement this section, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines to agencies to 
standardize--
            (1) measures of costs and benefits; and
            (2) the format of accounting statements.
    (d) Peer Review.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide for independent and external peer review of the 
guidelines and each accounting statement and associated report under 
this section. Such peer review shall not be subject to the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 629. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or when such disclosure has 
been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 630. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to establish 
scientific certification standards for explosives detection canines, 
and shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, for the certification of 
explosives detection canines employed by Federal agencies, or other 
agencies providing explosives detection services at airports in the 
United States.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing 
or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the 
Federal Government without the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 632. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 633. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 634. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Providence Health Plan;
                    (B) Personal Care's HMO;
                    (C) Care Choices;
                    (D) OSF Health Plans, Inc.;
                    (E) Yellowstone Community Health Plan; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the plan objects to 
        such coverage on the basis of religious beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe 
contraceptives because such activities would be contrary to the 
individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 635. Federal Funds Identified. Any request for proposals, 
solicitation, grant application, form, notification, press release, or 
other publications involving the distribution of Federal funds shall 
indicate the agency providing the funds and the amount provided. This 
provision shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and grants 
received by a State receiving Federal funds.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.
                                                       Calendar No. 169

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1282

                          [Report No. 106-87]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 24, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar