[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1894 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]



                                                       Calendar No. 447

104th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 1894

                          [Report No. 104-286]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1997, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 20, 1996

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
                                                       Calendar No. 447
104th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1894

                          [Report No. 104-286]

Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1997, and for other purposes.


Rule___________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 20, 1996

    Mr. Stevens from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1997, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, for 
military functions administered by the Department of Defense, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Army on active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant 
to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), 
to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to 
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $20,559,042,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Navy on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant 
to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), 
to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to 
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $16,943,581,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Marine Corps on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided 
for elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 
97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 229(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund; $6,099,182,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Air Force on active duty (except members of reserve components 
provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments 
pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 
note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), 
and to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$17,021,810,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 10211, 10302, and 3038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and for members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$2,052,136,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on 
active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of 
title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund; $1,396,989,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for 
members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$389,325,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 of title 10, United States Code, 
or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in 
section 12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
other duty, and for members of the Air Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund; $785,842,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under section 10211, 10302, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of 
title 32, United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 
12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$3,259,169,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
section 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$1,295,511,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law; and not to 
exceed $11,437,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Army, and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity 
for confidential military purposes; $17,700,859,000 and, in addition, 
$50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National Defense 
Stockpile Transaction Fund.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law; and not to exceed $3,995,000, can be used for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be made on 
his certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; 
$20,241,517,000 and, in addition, $50,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law; 
$2,275,977,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law; and 
not to exceed $8,362,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his certificate of 
necessity for confidential military purposes; $17,331,309,000 and, in 
addition, $50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National 
Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law; 
$9,953,142,000, of which not to exceed $25,000,000 may be available for 
the CINC initiative fund account; and of which not to exceed 
$28,500,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to 
be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of Defense, 
and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be made available 
only for use in federally owned education facilities located on 
military installations for the purpose of transferring title of such 
facilities to the local education agency.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $1,129,436,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $861,527,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $115,367,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $1,494,953,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized 
by law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft); $2,294,477,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For operation and maintenance of the Air National Guard, including 
medical and hospital treatment and related expenses in non-Federal 
hospitals; maintenance, operation, repair, and other necessary expenses 
of facilities for the training and administration of the Air National 
Guard, including repair of facilities, maintenance, operation, and 
modification of aircraft; transportation of things; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; supplies, materials, and equipment, as authorized by 
law for the Air National Guard; and expenses incident to the 
maintenance and use of supplies, materials, and equipment, including 
such as may be furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of 
the Department of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the 
same basis as authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on 
active Federal duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting 
units in compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when 
specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau; 
$2,721,973,000.

             Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses directly relating to Overseas Contingency Operations 
by United States military forces; $1,069,957,000: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
maintenance accounts within this title: Provided further, That the 
funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for the 
same purposes and for the same time period, as the appropriation to 
which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces; $6,185,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 
can be used for official representation purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $356,916,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That not more than twenty-five percent 
of funds provided under this heading may be obligated for environmental 
remediation by the Corps of Engineers under total environmental 
remediation contracts.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Navy, $302,900,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Navy, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Air Force, $414,700,000, to remain 
available until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of the Air 
Force shall, upon determining that such funds are required for 
environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, 
removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of the Air 
Force, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by 
this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the 
Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that all 
or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Defense, $38,650,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes 
(including programs and operations at sites formerly used by the 
Department of Defense), transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of Defense, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back 
to this appropriation.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $269,850,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris at sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense (consisting of the 
programs provided under sections 401, 402, 404, 2547, and 2551 of title 
10, United States Code); $49,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1998.

                  Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction

    For assistance to the republics of the former Soviet Union, 
including assistance provided by contract or by grants, for 
facilitating the elimination and the safe and secure transportation and 
storage of nuclear, chemical and other weapons; for establishing 
programs to prevent the proliferation of weapons, weapons components, 
and weapon-related technology and expertise; for programs relating to 
the training and support of defense and military personnel for 
demilitarization and protection of weapons, weapons components and 
weapons technology and expertise; $327,900,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $1,283,815,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $982,829,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes; 
$1,449,714,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1999: Provided, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph and 
notwithstanding the provisions of title 31, United States Code, Section 
1502(a), not to exceed $33,100,000 may be obligated for future year 
V903 diesel engine requirements to maintain the industrial base.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854, title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes; $1,118,329,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and nontracked combat vehicles; 
the purchase of not to exceed 14 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only; communications and electronic equipment; other 
support equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the 
foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
necessary for the foregoing purposes; $3,295,486,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph and notwithstanding the 
provisions of title 31, United States Code, Section 1502(a), not to 
exceed $2,400,000 may be obligated for future year V903 diesel engine 
requirements to maintain the industrial base.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public 
and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; $7,239,704,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, other ordnance and 
ammunition, and related support equipment including spare parts, and 
accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, including 
the land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may 
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; $1,500,154,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided, 
That in addition to the foregoing purposes, the funds appropriated 
above under this heading shall be available to liquidate reported 
deficiencies in appropriations provided under this heading in prior 
Department of Defense appropriations acts, to the extent such 
deficiencies cannot otherwise be liquidated pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1553(b).

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and 
armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and 
installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of 
critical, long leadtime components and designs for vessels to be 
constructed or converted in the future; and expansion of public and 
private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title, as follows:
            For continuation of the SSN-21 attack submarine program, 
        $699,071,000;
            NSSN-1 (AP) $296,186,000;
            NSSN-2 (AP) $701,000,000;
            CVN Refuelings, $237,029,000;
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $3,909,072,000;
            Oceanographic ship program, $54,400,000;
            Oceanographic ship SWATH, $45,000,000;
            LCAC landing craft air cushion program (AP-CY), $3,000,000; 
        and
            For craft, outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and 
        first destination transportation, $248,572,000;
in all: $6,193,330,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That additional obligations may be 
incurred after September 30, 2001, for engineering services, tests, 
evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the 
final stage of ship construction: Provided further, That none of the 
funds herein provided for the construction or conversion of any naval 
vessel to be constructed in shipyards in the United States shall be 
expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major components 
of such vessel: Provided further, That none of the funds herein 
provided shall be used for the construction of any naval vessel in 
foreign shipyards: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Navy is 
hereby granted the authority to enter into one or more contracts for 
the procurement of not less than 12 Arleigh Burke class destroyers in 
fiscal year 1998 through fiscal year 2001 at a procurement rate of not 
less than three ships per year.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except 
ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for 
conversion); expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; $2,944,519,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1999.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles 
for the Marine Corps, including the purchase of not to exceed 88 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public 
and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands 
and interests therein, may be acquired and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; $660,507,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1999.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things; $6,630,370,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and 
accessories therefor, ground handling equipment, and training devices; 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of things; 
$2,713,944,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of not to exceed 506 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; the purchase of 1 
vehicle required for physical security of personnel, notwithstanding 
price limitations applicable to passenger vehicles but not to exceed 
$287,000 per vehicle; and expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
$5,577,787,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments) necessary for 
procurement, production, and modification of equipment, supplies, 
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the 
purchase of not to exceed 389 passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only; expansion of public and private plants, equipment, and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; $1,773,794,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1999.

                  National Guard and Reserve Equipment

    For procurement of aircraft, missiles, tracked combat vehicles, 
ammunition, other weapons, and other procurement for the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces; $759,800,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the Chiefs of the 
Reserve and National Guard components shall, not later than 30 days 
after the enactment of this Act, individually submit to the 
congressional defense committees the modernization priority assessment 
for their respective Reserve or National Guard component.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; 
$5,107,283,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1998.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; 
$8,067,543,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1998: Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph which are 
available for the V-22 may be used to meet requirements of the Special 
Operations Forces.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; 
$14,778,540,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1998.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments), necessary for basic and 
applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced 
research projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary 
of Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment; $9,190,092,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1998.

               Developmental Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, of independent activities 
of the Director, Test and Evaluation in the direction and supervision 
of developmental test and evaluation, including performance and joint 
developmental testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in 
connection therewith; $269,038,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1998.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation 
in the direction and supervision of operational test and evaluation, 
including initial operational test and evaluation which is conducted 
prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint operational 
testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
therewith; $21,968,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1998.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                    Defense Business Operations Fund

    For the Defense Business Operations Fund; $947,900,000.

                     National Defense Sealift Fund

    For National Defense Sealift Fund programs, projects, and 
activities, and for expenses of the National Defense Reserve Fleet, as 
established by section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
U.S.C. App. 1744); $1,093,002,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided in this paragraph shall be 
used to award a new contract that provides for the acquisition of any 
of the following major components unless such components are 
manufactured in the United States: auxiliary equipment, including 
pumps, for all ship-board services; propulsion system components (that 
is; engines, reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; and 
spreaders for shipboard cranes: Provided further, That the exercise of 
an option in a contract awarded through the obligation of previously 
appropriated funds shall not be considered to be the award of a new 
contract: Provided further, That the Secretary of the military 
department responsible for such procurement may waive these 
restrictions on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, that adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an 
acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
security purposes.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense, as authorized by law; 
$10,256,108,000, of which $9,936,638,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, and of which $319,470,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999, shall be for Procurement: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$14,500,000 shall be made available for obtaining emergency 
communications services for members of the Armed Forces and their 
families from the American National Red Cross.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents 
and munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $758,447,000, of which $478,947,000 shall be 
for Operation and maintenance, $191,200,000 shall be for Procurement to 
remain available until September 30, 1999, and $88,300,000 shall be for 
Research, development, test and evaluation to remain available until 
September 30, 1998.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
Operation and maintenance; for Procurement; and for Research, 
development, test and evaluation; $789,024,000: Provided, That the 
funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be available for obligation 
for the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation 
to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any transfer authority 
contained elsewhere in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended; $139,157,000, of which $137,157,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $500,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on his 
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; and of 
which $2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999, shall 
be for Procurement.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain proper funding level for continuing 
the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System; $184,200,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account

    For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community Management 
Account; $94,739,000.

Payment to Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and Environmental 
                            Restoration Fund

    For payment to Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and 
Environmental Restoration Fund, as authorized by law; $10,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 National Security Education Trust Fund

    For the purposes of title VIII of Public Law 102-183, $5,100,000, 
to be derived from the National Security Education Trust Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8002. During the current fiscal year, provisions of law 
prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any 
person not a citizen of the United States shall not apply to personnel 
of the Department of Defense: Provided, That salary increases granted 
to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees of the 
Department of Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in 
excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host 
nation to its own employees, whichever is higher: Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to Department of Defense foreign 
service national employees serving at United States diplomatic missions 
whose pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980: Provided further, That the limitations of this provision 
shall not apply to foreign national employees of the Department of 
Defense in the Republic of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004. No more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in this 
Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year 
shall be obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations for support 
of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training 
of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8005. Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such 
action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the approval 
of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
$1,200,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of Defense or 
funds made available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
military functions (except military construction) between such 
appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged with 
and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, 
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than those 
for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
which funds are requested has been denied by Congress: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Congress 
promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority or any other 
authority in this Act: Provided further, That no part of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to prepare or present a request to the 
Committees on Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item 
for which reprogramming is requested has been denied by the Congress.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8006. During the current fiscal year, cash balances in working 
capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant to 
section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in only 
such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be 
made from such funds: Provided, That transfers may be made between such 
funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'' and 
``Operation and Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the 
Office of Management and Budget, except that such transfers may not be 
made unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the Congress of the 
proposed transfer. Except in amounts equal to the amounts appropriated 
to working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may be made 
against a working capital fund to procure or increase the value of war 
reserve material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has 
notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8007. Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used to 
initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 
calendar days in session in advance to the congressional defense 
committees.
    Sec. 8008. None of the funds contained in this Act available for 
the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services shall 
be available for payments to physicians and other non-institutional 
health care providers in excess of the amounts allowed in fiscal year 
1996 for similar services, except that: (a) for services for which the 
Secretary of Defense determines an increase is justified by economic 
circumstances, the allowable amounts may be increased in accordance 
with appropriate economic index data similar to that used pursuant to 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act; and (b) for services the 
Secretary determines are overpriced based on allowable payments under 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act, the allowable amounts shall be 
reduced by not more than 15 percent (except that the reduction may be 
waived if the Secretary determines that it would impair adequate access 
to health care services for beneficiaries). The Secretary shall solicit 
public comment prior to promulgating regulations to implement this 
section. Such regulations shall include a limitation, similar to that 
used under title XVIII of the Social Security Act, on the extent to 
which a provider may bill a beneficiary an actual charge in excess of 
the allowable amount.
    Sec. 8009. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available to initiate (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic 
order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of 
the contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in 
excess of $20,000,000, or (2) a contract for advance procurement 
leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity 
procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
congressional defense committees have been notified at least thirty 
days in advance of the proposed contract award: Provided, That no part 
of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to 
initiate a multiyear contract for which the economic order quantity 
advance procurement is not funded at least to the limits of the 
Government's liability: Provided further, That no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to initiate 
multiyear procurement contracts for any systems or component thereof if 
the value of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless 
specifically provided in this Act: Provided further, That no multiyear 
procurement contract can be terminated without 10-day prior 
notification to the congressional defense committees: Provided further, 
That the execution of multiyear authority shall require the use of a 
present value analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual 
procurement.
    Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used for 
multiyear procurement contracts as follows:
            Javelin missiles;
            Arleigh Burke (DDG-51) class destroyers;
            MK19-3 grenade machine guns;
            M16A2 rifles;
            M249 Squad Automatic Weapons;
            M4 carbine rifles; and
            M240B machine guns.
    Sec. 8010. Within the funds appropriated for the operation and 
maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant 
to section 401 of title 10, United States Code, for humanitarian and 
civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code. Such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic 
assistance costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United 
States Code, and these obligations shall be reported to Congress on 
September 30 of each year: Provided, That funds available for operation 
and maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian and 
similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the Trust Territories 
of the Pacific Islands and freely associated states of Micronesia, 
pursuant to the Compact of Free Association as authorized by Public Law 
99-239: Provided further, That upon a determination by the Secretary of 
the Army that such action is beneficial for graduate medical education 
programs conducted at Army medical facilities located in Hawaii, the 
Secretary of the Army may authorize the provision of medical services 
at such facilities and transportation to such facilities, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, for civilian patients from American Samoa, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the 
Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8011. (a) During fiscal year 1997, the civilian personnel of 
the Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis of any end-
strength, and the management of such personnel during that fiscal year 
shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known as an end-
strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed on the 
last day of such fiscal year.
    (b) The fiscal year 1998 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1998 Department of Defense budget request 
shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) 
and (b) of this provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 
1998.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to military 
(civilian) technicians.
    Sec. 8012. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available by this Act shall be used by the Department of 
Defense to exceed, outside the fifty United States, its territories, 
and the District of Columbia, 125,000 civilian workyears: Provided, 
That workyears shall be applied as defined in the Federal Personnel 
Manual: Provided further, That workyears expended in dependent student 
hiring programs for disadvantaged youths shall not be included in this 
workyear limitation.
    Sec. 8013. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional 
action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8014. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used to make contributions to the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund pursuant to section 2006(g) of title 10, United States 
Code, representing the normal cost for future benefits under section 
3015(c) of title 38, United States Code, for any member of the armed 
services who, on or after the date of enactment of this Act--
            (1) enlists in the armed services for a period of active 
        duty of less than three years; or
            (2) receives an enlistment bonus under section 308a or 308f 
        of title 37, United States Code,
nor shall any amounts representing the normal cost of such future 
benefits be transferred from the Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 2006(d) of 
title 10, United States Code; nor shall the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs pay such benefits to any such member: Provided, That in the 
case of a member covered by clause (1), these limitations shall not 
apply to members in combat arms skills or to members who enlist in the 
armed services on or after July 1, 1989, under a program continued or 
established by the Secretary of Defense in fiscal year 1991 to test the 
cost-effective use of special recruiting incentives involving not more 
than nineteen noncombat arms skills approved in advance by the 
Secretary of Defense: Provided further, That this subsection applies 
only to active components of the Army.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available 
for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army 
participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
completion of a service commitment: Provided, That this subsection 
shall not apply to those members who have reenlisted with this option 
prior to October 1, 1987: Provided further, That this subsection 
applies only to active components of the Army.
    Sec. 8015. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function 
of the Department of Defense that, on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act, is performed by more than ten Department of Defense civilian 
employees until a most efficient and cost-effective organization 
analysis is completed on such activity or function and certification of 
the analysis is made to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That this section shall 
not apply to a commercial or industrial type function of the Department 
of Defense that: (1) is included on the procurement list established 
pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 25, 1938 (41 U.S.C. 47), 
popularly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act; (2) is planned to 
be converted to performance by a qualified nonprofit agency for the 
blind or by a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped 
individuals in accordance with that Act; or (3) is planned to be 
converted to performance by a qualified firm under 51 percent Native 
American ownership.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8016. Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred 
to any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose 
of implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance 
agreement pursuant to section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2301 note), as 
amended, under the authority of this provision or any other transfer 
authority contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8017. For fiscal year 1997, the total amount appropriated in 
this Act to fund the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities program, 
operated pursuant to section 911 of Public Law 97-99 (42 U.S.C. 248c), 
shall not exceed $331,380,000.
    Sec. 8018. None of the funds appropriated by this Act available for 
the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services 
(CHAMPUS) shall be available for the reimbursement of any health care 
provider for inpatient mental health service for care received when a 
patient is referred to a provider of inpatient mental health care or 
residential treatment care by a medical or health care professional 
having an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is 
referred: Provided, That this limitation does not apply in the case of 
inpatient mental health services provided under the program for the 
handicapped under subsection (d) of section 1079 of title 10, United 
States Code, provided as partial hospital care, or provided pursuant to 
a waiver authorized by the Secretary of Defense because of medical or 
psychological circumstances of the patient that are confirmed by a 
health professional who is not a Federal employee after a review, 
pursuant to rules prescribed by the Secretary, which takes into account 
the appropriate level of care for the patient, the intensity of 
services required by the patient, and the availability of that care.
    Sec. 8019. Funds available in this Act may be used to provide 
transportation for the next-of-kin of individuals who have been 
prisoners of war or missing in action from the Vietnam era to an annual 
meeting in the United States, under such regulations as the Secretary 
of Defense may prescribe.
    Sec. 8020. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may, by Executive 
Agreement, establish with host nation governments in NATO member states 
a separate account into which such residual value amounts negotiated in 
the return of United States military installations in NATO member 
states may be deposited, in the currency of the host nation, in lieu of 
direct monetary transfers to the United States Treasury: Provided, That 
such credits may be utilized only for the construction of facilities to 
support United States military forces in that host nation, or such real 
property maintenance and base operating costs that are currently 
executed through monetary transfers to such host nations: Provided 
further, That the Department of Defense's budget submission for fiscal 
year 1998 shall identify such sums anticipated in residual value 
settlements, and identify such construction, real property maintenance 
or base operating costs that shall be funded by the host nation through 
such credits: Provided further, That all military construction projects 
to be executed from such accounts must be previously approved in a 
prior Act of Congress: Provided further, That each such Executive 
Agreement with a NATO member host nation shall be reported to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate thirty days prior to the conclusion and 
endorsement of any such agreement established under this provision.
    Sec. 8021. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be used to demilitarize or dispose of any M-1 Carbines, M-1 Garand 
rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber rifles, or M-1911 
pistols.
    Sec. 8022. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to pay more than 50 
percent of an amount paid to any person under section 308 of title 37, 
United States Code, in a lump sum.
    Sec. 8023. Of the funds made available by this Act in title III, 
Procurement, $8,000,000, drawn pro rata from each appropriations 
account in title III, shall be available for incentive payments 
authorized by section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974, 25 
U.S.C. 1544. These payments shall be available only to contractors 
which have submitted subcontracting plans pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 637(d), 
and according to regulations which shall be promulgated by the 
Secretary of Defense within 90 days of the passage of this Act.
    Sec. 8024. During the current fiscal year, none of the funds 
available to the Department of Defense may be used to procure or 
acquire (1) defensive handguns unless such handguns are the M9 or M11 
9mm Department of Defense standard handguns, or (2) offensive handguns 
except for the Special Operations Forces: Provided, That the foregoing 
shall not apply to handguns and ammunition for marksmanship 
competitions.
    Sec. 8025. No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used for any single relocation of an 
organization, unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense 
into or within the National Capital Region: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
90 days after certifying in writing to the Congressional defense 
committees that such a relocation is required in the best interest of 
the Government.
    Sec. 8026. During the current fiscal year, funds appropriated or 
otherwise available for any Federal agency, the Congress, the judicial 
branch, or the District of Columbia may be used for the pay, 
allowances, and benefits of an employee as defined by section 2105 of 
title 5 or an individual employed by the government of the District of 
Columbia, permanent or temporary indefinite, who--
            (1) is a member of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, 
        as described in section 261 of title 10, or the National Guard, 
        as described in section 101 of title 32;
            (2) performs, for the purpose of providing military aid to 
        enforce the law or providing assistance to civil authorities in 
        the protection or saving of life or property or prevention of 
        injury--
                    (A) Federal service under sections 331, 332, 333, 
                or 12406 of title 10, or other provision of law, as 
                applicable, or
                    (B) full-time military service for his or her 
                State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
                Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and
            (3) requests and is granted--
                    (A) leave under the authority of this section; or
                    (B) annual leave, which may be granted without 
                regard to the provisions of sections 5519 and 6323(b) 
                of title 5, if such employee is otherwise entitled to 
                such annual leave:
Provided, That any employee who requests leave under subsection (3)(A) 
for service described in subsection (2) of this section is entitled to 
such leave, subject to the provisions of this section and of the last 
sentence of section 6323(b) of title 5, and such leave shall be 
considered leave under section 6323(b) of title 5.
    Sec. 8027. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to perform any cost study pursuant to the provisions of OMB 
Circular A-76 if the study being performed exceeds a period of twenty-
four months after initiation of such study with respect to a single 
function activity or forty-eight months after initiation of such study 
for a multi-function activity.
    Sec. 8028. Funds appropriated by this Act for the American Forces 
Information Service shall not be used for any national or international 
political or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8029. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
regulation, the Secretary of Defense may adjust wage rates for civilian 
employees hired for certain health care occupations as authorized for 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by section 7455 of title 38, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 8030. None of the funds appropriated or made available in this 
Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 53rd 
Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such 
action would reduce the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the 
levels funded in this Act.
    Sec. 8031. (a) Of the funds for the procurement of supplies or 
services appropriated by this Act, qualified nonprofit agencies for the 
blind or other severely handicapped shall be afforded the maximum 
practicable opportunity to participate as subcontractors and suppliers 
in the performance of contracts let by the Department of Defense.
    (b) During the current fiscal year, a business concern which has 
negotiated with a military service or defense agency a subcontracting 
plan for the participation by small business concerns pursuant to 
section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) shall be 
given credit toward meeting that subcontracting goal for any purchases 
made from qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely 
handicapped.
    (c) For the purpose of this section, the phrase ``qualified 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped'' means a 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped that has 
been approved by the Committee for the Purchase from the Blind and 
Other Severely Handicapped under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 
46-48).
    Sec. 8032. During the current fiscal year, net receipts pursuant to 
collections from third party payers pursuant to section 1095 of title 
10, United States Code, shall be made available to the local facility 
of the uniformed services responsible for the collections and shall be 
over and above the facility's direct budget amount.
    Sec. 8033. During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed 
$350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only 
from the Government of Kuwait, under that section: Provided, That, upon 
receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriation or fund which incurred such obligations.
    Sec. 8034. Of the funds made available in this Act, not less than 
$22,700,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol, of which 
$19,000,000 shall be available for Operation and Maintenance.
    Sec. 8035. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be 
available for the preparation of studies on--
            (a) the feasibility of removal and transportation of 
        unitary chemical weapons or agents from the eight chemical 
        storage sites within the continental United States to Johnston 
        Atoll: Provided, That this prohibition shall not apply to 
        General Accounting Office studies requested by a Member of 
        Congress or a Congressional Committee; and
            (b) the potential future uses of the nine chemical disposal 
        facilities other than for the destruction of stockpile chemical 
        munitions and as limited by section 1412(c)(2), Public Law 99-
        145: Provided, That this prohibition does not apply to future 
        use studies for the CAMDS facility at Tooele, Utah.
    Sec. 8036. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the Department 
of Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated 
funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages sold by the drink) 
on a military installation located in the United States unless such 
malt beverages and wine are procured within that State, or in the case 
of the District of Columbia, within the District of Columbia, in which 
the military installation is located: Provided, That in a case in which 
the military installation is located in more than one State, purchases 
may be made in any State in which the installation is located: Provided 
further, That such local procurement requirements for malt beverages 
and wine shall apply to all alcoholic beverages only for military 
installations in States which are not contiguous with another State: 
Provided further, That alcoholic beverages other than wine and malt 
beverages, in contiguous States and the District of Columbia shall be 
procured from the most competitive source, price and other factors 
considered.
    Sec. 8037. For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the National Security Committee of the House 
of Representatives, the Armed Services Committee of the Senate, the 
subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the subcommittee on National Security of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8038. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Department of Defense may acquire the 
modification, depot maintenance and repair of aircraft, vehicles and 
vessels as well as the production of components and other Defense-
related articles, through competition between Department of Defense 
depot maintenance activities and private firms: Provided, That the 
Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or defense 
agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall certify that 
successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct and indirect 
costs for both public and private bids: Provided further, That Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions 
conducted under this section.
    Sec. 8039. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal 
defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the United 
States and a foreign country pursuant to which the Secretary of Defense 
has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for certain products in 
that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on 
the amount of Department of Defense purchases from foreign entities in 
fiscal year 1997. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar 
value of items for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to 
any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act 
of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to 
which the United States is a party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means title III of the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for 
the Treasury and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1934, and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 
U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    Sec. 8040. Appropriations contained in this Act that remain 
available at the end of the current fiscal year as a result of energy 
cost savings realized by the Department of Defense shall remain 
available for obligation for the next fiscal year to the extent, and 
for the purposes, provided in section 2865 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8041. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, voluntary 
separation incentives payable under 10 U.S.C. 1175 may be paid in such 
amounts as are necessary from the assets of the Voluntary Separation 
Incentive Fund established by section 1175(h)(1).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8042. Amounts deposited during the current fiscal year to the 
special account established under 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) and to the 
special account established under 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1) are appropriated 
and shall be available until transferred by the Secretary of Defense to 
current applicable appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense 
under the terms and conditions specified by 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) (A) and 
(B) and 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1)(B), to be merged with and to be available 
for the same time period and the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred.
    Sec. 8043. During the current fiscal year, appropriations available 
to the Department of Defense may be used to reimburse a member of a 
reserve component of the Armed Forces who is not otherwise entitled to 
travel and transportation allowances and who occupies transient 
government housing while performing active duty for training or 
inactive duty training: Provided, That such members may be provided 
lodging in kind if transient government quarters are unavailable as if 
the member was entitled to such allowances under subsection (a) of 
section 404 of title 37, United States Code: Provided further, That if 
lodging in kind is provided, any authorized service charge or cost of 
such lodging may be paid directly from funds appropriated for operation 
and maintenance of the reserve component of the member concerned.
    Sec. 8044. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
available for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, 
Defense'' may be obligated for the Young Marines program.
    Sec. 8045. During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in the 
Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment Recovery 
Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
shall be available until expended for the payments specified by section 
2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8046. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, annual 
payments granted under the provisions of section 4416 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-428; 106 
Stat. 2714) shall be made from appropriations in this Act which are 
available for the pay of reserve component personnel.
    Sec. 8047. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act, not more than $119,200,000 shall be available for payment of 
the operating costs of NATO Headquarters: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Defense may waive this section for Department of Defense support 
provided to NATO forces in and around the former Yugoslavia.
    Sec. 8048. During the current fiscal year, appropriations which are 
available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance 
may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of 
not more than $100,000.
    Sec. 8049. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, 
appropriations available for the pay and allowances of active duty 
members of the Armed Forces shall be available to pay the retired pay 
which is payable pursuant to section 4403 of Public Law 102-484 (10 
U.S.C. 1293 note) under the terms and conditions provided in section 
4403.
    Sec. 8050. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Defense Business Operations 
Fund shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for the 
purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated sale 
during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers 
of the Defense Business Operations Fund if such an item would not have 
been chargeable to the Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal 
year 1994 and if the purchase of such an investment item would be 
chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations made to the 
Department of Defense for procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 1998 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1998 Department of Defense budget shall be 
prepared and submitted to the Congress on the basis that any equipment 
which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
fiscal year 1998 procurement appropriation and not in the supply 
management business area or any other area or category of the Defense 
Business Operations Fund.
    Sec. 8051. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for use by a Military Department to modify an aircraft, 
weapon, ship or other item of equipment, that the Military Department 
concerned plans to retire or otherwise dispose of within five years 
after completion of the modification: Provided, That this prohibition 
shall not apply to safety modifications: Provided further, That this 
prohibition may be waived by the Secretary of a Military Department if 
the Secretary determines it is in the best national security interest 
of the United States to provide such waiver and so notifies the 
congressional defense committees in writing.
    Sec. 8052. None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for 
obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds 
appropriated for the Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 1998.
    Sec. 8053. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act for the Defense Intelligence Agency may be used 
for the design, development, and deployment of General Defense 
Intelligence Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
information systems for the Services, the Unified and Specified 
Commands, and the component commands.
    Sec. 8054. Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', not less 
than $8,000,000 shall be made available only for the mitigation of 
environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to 
tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department 
of Defense activities.
    Sec. 8055. Amounts collected for the use of the facilities of the 
National Science Center for Communications and Electronics during the 
current fiscal year pursuant to section 1459(g) of the Department of 
Defense Authorization Act, 1986 and deposited to the special account 
established under subsection 1459(g)(2) of that Act are appropriated 
and shall be available until expended for the operation and maintenance 
of the Center as provided for in subsection 1459(g)(2).
    Sec. 8056. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
to fill the commander's position at any military medical facility with 
a health care professional unless the prospective candidate can 
demonstrate professional administrative skills.
    Sec. 8057. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended by an entity of the Department of Defense unless the entity, 
in expending the funds, complies with the Buy American Act. For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ``Buy American Act'' means title 
III of the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Treasury 
and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, 
and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et 
seq.).
    Sec. 8058. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for a contract for studies, analyses, or consulting services 
entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited 
proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for the 
procurement determines--
            (1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, only one 
        source is found fully qualified to perform the proposed work, 
        or
            (2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an 
        unsolicited proposal which offers significant scientific or 
        technological promise, represents the product of original 
        thinking, and was submitted in confidence by one source, or
            (3) the purpose of the contract is to take advantage of 
        unique and significant industrial accomplishment by a specific 
        concern, or to insure that a new product or idea of a specific 
        concern is given financial support:
Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to contracts in an 
amount of less than $25,000, contracts related to improvements of 
equipment that is in development or production, or contracts as to 
which a civilian official of the Department of Defense, who has been 
confirmed by the Senate, determines that the award of such contract is 
in the interest of the national defense.
    Sec. 8059. Of the funds provided in title VI, under the heading 
``Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense'', $40,000,000 
shall only be available for the initiation of a pilot program to 
identify and demonstrate not less than two alternatives to the baseline 
incineration process for the demilitarization of assembled chemical 
munitions: Provided, That the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Technology shall, not later than November 1, 1996, 
designate a program executive officer to carry out the pilot program 
who is not, nor has been, in direct or immediate control of the 
baseline reverse assembly incineration demilitarization program: 
Provided further, That the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Technology shall evaluate the effectiveness of each alternative 
chemical munitions demilitarization technology identified and 
demonstrated under the pilot program to demilitarize assembled chemical 
munitions while meeting all applicable Federal and State environmental 
and safety requirements: Provided further, That the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Technology shall transmit, by December 15 
of each year, a report to the congressional defense committees on the 
activities carried out under the pilot program during the preceding 
fiscal year in which the report is to be made: Provided further, That 
no funds may be obligated for the initiation of construction of a 
baseline incineration facility at the Lexington Blue Grass Army Depot 
or the Pueblo Depot activity until 180 days after the Secretary of 
Defense has submitted to the congressional defense committees a report 
detailing the effectiveness of each alternative chemical munitions 
demilitarization technology identified and demonstrated under the pilot 
program and its ability to meet the applicable safety and environmental 
requirements.
    Sec. 8060. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Defense may, when he considers it in the best interest of 
the United States, cancel any part of an indebtedness, up to $2,500, 
that is or was owed to the United States by a member or former member 
of a uniformed service if such indebtedness, as determined by the 
Secretary, was incurred in connection with Operation Desert Shield/
Storm: Provided, That the amount of an indebtedness previously paid by 
a member or former member and canceled under this section shall be 
refunded to the member.
    Sec. 8061. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense is authorized to enter into interim leasing 
arrangements for the Naval Air Facility, Adak, for commercial 
reutilization of Department of Defense infrastructure and facilities 
consistent with the 1990 Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
Commission Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-510, as amended).

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 8062. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1995/1997'', $31,900,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1996/1998'', $20,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force, 
        1996/1997'', $75,000,000.
    Sec. 8063. Of the funds appropriated in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-61), under the heading ``Other 
Procurement, Army'', the Department of the Army shall grant $477,000 to 
the Kansas Unified School District 207 for the purpose of integrating 
schools at Fort Leavenworth into the existing fiber optic network on 
post.
    Sec. 8064. None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
reduce the authorized positions for military (civilian) technicians of 
the Army National Guard, the Air National Guard, Army Reserve and Air 
Force Reserve for the purpose of applying any administratively imposed 
civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military (civilian) 
technicians, unless such reductions are a direct result of a reduction 
in military force structure.
    Sec. 8065. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended for assistance to 
the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea unless specifically 
appropriated for that purpose.
    Sec. 8066. During the current fiscal year, funds appropriated in 
this Act are available to compensate members of the National Guard for 
duty performed pursuant to a plan submitted by a Governor of a State 
and approved by the Secretary of Defense under section 112 of title 32, 
United States Code: Provided, That during the performance of such duty, 
the members of the National Guard shall be under State command and 
control: Provided further, That such duty shall be treated as full-time 
National Guard duty for purposes of sections 12602 (a)(2) and (b)(2) of 
title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8067. Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and 
maintenance of the Military Departments, Unified and Specified Commands 
and Defense Agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay, 
allowances and other expenses which would otherwise be incurred against 
appropriations for the National Guard and Reserve when members of the 
National Guard and Reserve provide intelligence support to Unified 
Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence Activities, including 
the activities and programs included within the General Defense 
Intelligence Program and the Consolidated Cryptologic Program: 
Provided, That nothing in this section authorizes deviation from 
established Reserve and National Guard personnel and training 
procedures.
    Sec. 8068. During the current fiscal year, none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act may be used to reduce the civilian medical and 
medical support personnel assigned to military treatment facilities 
below the September 30, 1996 level.
    Sec. 8069. All refunds or other amounts collected in the 
administration of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the 
Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) shall be credited to current year 
appropriations.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8070. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
transferred to or obligated from the Pentagon Reservation Maintenance 
Revolving Fund, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies that the 
total cost for the planning, design, construction and installation of 
equipment for the renovation of the Pentagon Reservation will not 
exceed $1,218,000,000.
    Sec. 8071. (a) None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug 
activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the 
United States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence Agency 
for any fiscal year for drug interdiction and counter-drug activities 
may be transferred to any other department or agency of the United 
States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8072. Appropriations available in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for increasing energy and 
water efficiency in Federal buildings may, during its period of 
availability, be transferred to other appropriations or funds of the 
Department of Defense for projects related to increasing energy and 
water efficiency, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
general purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 8073. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
available to the Department of Defense shall be made available to 
provide transportation of medical supplies and equipment, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, to American Samoa: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds available to the 
Department of Defense shall be made available to provide transportation 
of medical supplies and equipment, on a nonreimbursable basis, to the 
Indian Health Service when it is in conjunction with a civil-military 
project.
    Sec. 8074. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Naval 
shipyards of the United States shall be eligible to participate in any 
manufacturing extension program financed by funds appropriated in this 
or any other Act.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8075. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, $300,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense and shall be available only for transfer to the 
United States Coast Guard.
    Sec. 8076. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
contract awarded by the Department of Defense during the current fiscal 
year for construction or service performed in whole or in part in a 
State which is not contiguous with another State and has an 
unemployment rate in excess of the national average rate of 
unemployment as determined by the Secretary of Labor, shall include a 
provision requiring the contractor to employ, for the purpose of 
performing that portion of the contract in such State that is not 
contiguous with another State, individuals who are residents of such 
State and who, in the case of any craft or trade, possess or would be 
able to acquire promptly the necessary skills: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements of this section, on a 
case-by-case basis, in the interest of national security.
    Sec. 8077. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
funds available in this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force may enter 
into agreements to modify leases of housing units being constructed if 
deemed to be in the best interest of the Department. The housing units 
shall be assigned, without rental charge, as family housing to members 
of the Armed Forces who are eligible for assignment to military family 
housing.
    Sec. 8078. (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit, on a 
quarterly basis, a report to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate setting forth all 
costs (including incremental costs) incurred by the Department of 
Defense during the preceding quarter in implementing or supporting 
resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, including any such 
resolution calling for international sanctions, international 
peacekeeping operations, and humanitarian missions undertaken by the 
Department of Defense. The quarterly report shall include an aggregate 
of all such Department of Defense costs by operation or mission.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall detail in the quarterly reports 
all efforts made to seek credit against past United Nations 
expenditures and all efforts made to seek compensation from the United 
Nations for costs incurred by the Department of Defense in implementing 
and supporting United Nations activities.
    Sec. 8079. To the extent authorized by subchapter VI of Chapter 148 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
loan guarantees in support of U.S. defense exports not otherwise 
provided for: Provided, That the total contingent liability of the 
United States for guarantees issued under the authority of this section 
may not exceed $15,000,000,000: Provided further, That the exposure 
fees charged and collected by the Secretary for each guarantee, shall 
be paid by the country involved and shall not be financed as part of a 
loan guaranteed by the United States: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations, Armed Services and Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
the Committees on Appropriations, National Security and International 
Relations in the House of Representatives on the implementation of this 
program: Provided further, That amounts charged for administrative fees 
and deposited to the special account provided for under section 
2540c(d) of title 10, shall be available for paying the costs of 
administrative expenses of the Department of Defense that are 
attributable to the loan guarantee program under subchapter VI of 
Chapter 148 of title 10.
    Sec. 8080. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
shall be obligated or expended to make a financial contribution to the 
United Nations for the cost of an United Nations peacekeeping activity 
(whether pursuant to assessment or a voluntary contribution) or for 
payment of any United States arrearage to the United Nations.
    Sec. 8081. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
under this Act shall be obligated or expended to pay a contractor under 
a contract with the Department of Defense for costs of any amount paid 
by the contractor to an employee when--
            (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of 
        the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
            (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
        with a business combination.
    Sec. 8082. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transport or provide for the 
transportation of chemical munitions or agents to the Johnston Atoll 
for the purpose of storing or demilitarizing such munitions or agents.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
obsolete World War II chemical munition or agent of the United States 
found in the World War II Pacific Theater of Operations.
    (c) The President may suspend the application of subsection (a) 
during a period of war in which the United States is a party.
    Sec. 8083. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made in 
this Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' 
may be transferred to appropriations available for the pay of military 
personnel, to be merged with, and to be available for the same time 
period as the appropriations to which transferred, to be used for the 
purposes of expenses incurred in connection with a pilot program to 
increase the use of Reserve personnel in support of missions of the 
Armed Forces and for the use of such personnel in connection with 
support and services for eligible organizations and activities outside 
the Department of Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 8084. None of the funds provided in this Act may be obligated 
or expended for the sale of zinc in the National Defense Stockpile if 
zinc commodity prices decline more than five percent below the London 
Metals Exchange market price reported on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 8085. For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, United 
States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in this Act under 
the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' shall be considered 
to be for the same purpose as any subdivision under the heading 
``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' appropriations in any prior year, 
and the one percent limitation shall apply to the total amount of the 
appropriation.
    Sec. 8086. During the current fiscal year, and notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1552(a), not more than $107,000,000 appropriated under the 
heading ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'' in Public Law 101-511 and 
not more than $15,000,000 appropriated under the heading ``Aircraft 
Procurement, Air Force'' in Public Law 102-172 which were available and 
obligated for the B-2 Aircraft Program shall remain available for 
expenditure and for adjusting obligations for such Program until 
September 30, 2002.
    Sec. 8087. During the current fiscal year, in the case of an 
appropriation account of the Department of Defense for which the period 
of availability for obligation has expired or which has closed under 
the provisions of section 1552 of title 31, United States Code, and 
which has a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation 
or an adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current 
appropriation account for the same purpose as the expired or closed 
account if--
            (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
        (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
        the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
        account;
            (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
        any current appropriation account of the Department of Defense; 
        and
            (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is 
        not chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department of 
        Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, Public 
        Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note): Provided, That 
        in the case of an expired account, if subsequent review or 
        investigation discloses that there was not in fact a negative 
        unliquidated or unexpended balance in the account, any charge 
        to a current account under the authority of this section shall 
        be reversed and recorded against the expired account: Provided 
        further, That the total amount charged to a current 
        appropriation under this section may not exceed an amount equal 
        to one percent of the total appropriation for that account.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8088. Upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall make the following transfers of funds: Provided, That the amounts 
transferred shall be available for the same purposes as the 
appropriations to which transferred, and for the same time period as 
the appropriation from which transferred: Provided further, That the 
amounts shall be transferred between the following appropriations in 
the amount specified:
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1985/1995'':
                    For craft, outfitting, and post delivery, 
                $2,000,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1985/1995'':
                    DDG-51 Destroyer program, $2,000,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1986/1996'':
                    LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $2,154,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1986/1996'':
                    For craft, outfitting and post delivery, 
                $2,154,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1987/1996'':
                    T-AO fleet oiler program, $1,095,000;
                    Oceanographic ship program, $735,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1987/1996'':
                    For craft, outfitting, and post delivery, 
                $1,830,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1989/2000'':
                    T-AO fleet oiler program, $6,571,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1989/2000'':
                    SSN-21 attack submarine program, $6,571,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1991/2001'':
                    DDG-51 destroyer program, $12,687,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1991/2001'':
                    LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $9,387,000;
                    MHC coastal mine hunter program, $3,300,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1992/1996'':
                    For escalation, $1,600,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1992/1996'':
                    MHC coastal mine hunter program, $1,600,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1997'':
                    DDG-51 destroyer program, $5,000,000;
                    LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, $2,700,000;
                    For craft, outfitting, post delivery, and first 
                destination transportation, and inflation adjustments, 
                $1,577,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1997'':
                    AOE combat support ship program, $9,277,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1995/1999'':
                    Carrier replacement program, $18,023,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1997'':
                    MHC coastal mine hunter program, $6,700,000;
                    AOE combat support ship program, $11,323,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1994/1998'':
                    LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $4,100,000;
                    Mine warfare command and control ship, $1,000,000;
                    For craft, outfitting, post delivery, and first 
                destination transportation, $2,000,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1995/1999'':
                    Carrier replacement program, $9,477,000;
    From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1996/2000'':
                    NSSN-1 (AP), $3,791,000;
                    DDG-51 destroyer program, $4,075,000;
                    CVN Refuelings, $5,212,000;
                    T-AGS-64 multi-purpose oceanographic survey ship, 
                $375,000;
                    For craft, outfitting, post delivery, conversions 
                and first destination transportation, $11,770,000;
    To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1994/1998'':
                    DDG-51 destroyer program, $41,800,000.
    Sec. 8089. (a) The Secretary of Defense shall require not later 
than June 30, 1997, each disbursement by the Department of Defense in 
an amount in excess of $3,000,000 be matched to a particular obligation 
before the disbursement is made.
    (b) The Secretary shall ensure that a disbursement in excess of the 
threshold amount applicable under section (a) is not divided into 
multiple disbursements of less than that amount for the purpose of 
avoiding the applicability of such section to that disbursement.
    Sec. 8090. The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall 
submit to the Congressional defense committees a detailed report 
identifying, by amount and by separate budget activity, activity group, 
subactivity group, line item, program element, program, project, 
subproject, and activity, any activity for which the fiscal year 1998 
budget request was reduced because Congress appropriated funds above 
the President's budget request for that specific activity for fiscal 
year 1997.
    Sec. 8091. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'' in Public 
Law 104-61, $45,000,000 shall be made available only for procurement of 
T-39N aircraft, simulators, and support equipment currently used for 
training naval flight officers under an existing contract.
    Sec. 8092. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1552(a), of the funds provided 
in Department of Defense Appropriations Acts, not more than the 
specified amounts of funds from the following accounts shall remain 
available for the payment of satellite on-orbit incentive fees until 
the fees are paid:
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1990/1992'', $17,800,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1991/1993'', $19,330,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1992/1994'', $23,570,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1993/1995'', $16,780,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1994/1996'', $16,780,000.
    Sec. 8093. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
amounts available to the Department of Defense (department) during 
fiscal year 1997, not more than $1,162,650,000 may be obligated for 
financing activities of defense federally funded research and 
development centers (FFRDCs): Provided, That of the specific amount 
referred to previously in this subsection, not more than $206,650,000 
may be obligated for financing activities of the defense studies and 
analysis FFRDCs: Provided further, That the total amounts appropriated 
in titles II, III, and IV of this Act are hereby reduced by $52,286,000 
to reflect the overall funding ceiling contained in this subsection.
    (b) Within 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Congressional defense committees a report 
presenting the specific amounts--in dollars and staff years of 
technical effort--to be allocated by the department for each defense 
FFRDC during fiscal year 1997.
    (c) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of the 
department's fiscal year 1998 budget request, submit a report 
presenting the specific amounts--in dollars and staff years of 
technical effort--to be allocated for each defense FFRDC during that 
fiscal year.
    (d) The Secretary of Defense may, pursuant to the general transfer 
authority granted in Section 8005 of this Act, provide additional funds 
to a defense FFRDC: Provided, That any such transfer, irrespective of 
amount, shall be subject to a Form DD-1415 reprogramming action 
request.
    Sec. 8094. None of the funds available to the Department of the 
Navy may be used to enter into any contract for the overhaul, repair, 
or maintenance of any naval vessel homeported on the West Coast of the 
United States which includes charges for interport differential as an 
evaluation factor for award.
    Sec. 8095. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be used to purchase, install, 
replace, or otherwise repair any lock on a safe or security container 
which protects information critical to national security or any other 
classified materials and which has not been certified as passing the 
security lock specifications contained in regulation FF-L-2740 dated 
October 12, 1989, and has not passed all testing criteria and 
procedures established through February 28, 1992: Provided, That the 
Director of Central Intelligence may waive this provision, on a case-
by-case basis only, upon certification that the above cited locks are 
not adequate for the protection of sensitive intelligence information.
    Sec. 8096. (a) None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense during fiscal year 1997 may be obligated or expended to modify 
established reprogramming procedures, including modifying the below 
threshold reprogramming dollar thresholds, until 90 days after any 
proposed modification is reported to the Congressional defense 
committees along with a detailed justification for that proposed 
modification.
    (b) The Department of Defense may not modify its policies with 
respect to budgeting for low rate initial production test articles 
until 90 days after any proposed modification is reported to the 
Congressional defense committees along with a detailed justification 
for that proposed modification.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the terms ``established 
reprogramming procedures'' and the terms ``policies with respect to 
budgeting for low rate initial production test articles'' refer to 
those procedures and policies which were in effect on January 1, 1996.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8097. Of the funds provided in title IV of this Act, 
$93,000,000 shall be made available for prostate cancer research: 
Provided, That these funds shall be transferred to the Department of 
the Army for the execution of a peer review research program: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided in this section is in 
addition to any transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.
    Sec. 8098. Section 8110 of Public Law 104-61 (109 Stat. 674) is 
hereby repealed.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1997''.