[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1034 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 118

105th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1034

                          [Report No. 105-53]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1998, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 17, 1997

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
                                                       Calendar No. 118
105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1034

                          [Report No. 105-53]

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1998, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 17, 1997

Mr. Bond, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1998, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, commissions, 
corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1998, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by law (38 U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61); 
pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and burial 
benefits, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of Article IV 
of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, and 
for other benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 1312, 1977, and 
2106, chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 540-548; 43 Stat. 
122, 123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198); $19,932,997,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $26,380,000 of 
the amount appropriated shall be reimbursed to ``General operating 
expenses'' and ``Medical care'' for necessary expenses in implementing 
those provisions authorized in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1990, and in the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. chapters 51, 
53, and 55), the funding source for which is specifically provided as 
the ``Compensation and pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, That 
such sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall 
be reimbursed to ``Medical facilities revolving fund'' to augment the 
funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided 
to pensioners as authorized by the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 
U.S.C. chapter 55).

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 31, 
34, 35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61, $1,366,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to pay any 
court order, court award or any compromise settlement arising from 
litigation involving the vocational training program authorized by 
section 18 of Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 19; 
70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487, $51,360,000, to remain available until 
expended.

         veterans housing benefit program fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 1998, within the resources available, not to exceed 
$300,000 in gross obligations for direct loans are authorized for 
specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $160,437,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                  education loan fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $3,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $200,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $44,000,  as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $2,278,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $388,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, $515,000, 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, 
as authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department; 
and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and equipment; 
funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for 
beneficiaries receiving care in the Department; administrative expenses 
in support of planning, design, project management, real property 
acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of any 
facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
oversight, engineering and architectural activities not charged to 
project cost; repairing, altering, improving or providing facilities in 
the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of the 
Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by the 
hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; aid to State 
homes as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1741; administrative and legal 
expenses of the Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed 
the Department as authorized under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.; and not to 
exceed $8,000,000 to fund cost comparison studies as referred to in 38 
U.S.C. 8110(a)(5); $17,026,846,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That 
of the funds made available under this heading, $550,000,000 is for the 
equipment and land and structures object classifications only, which 
amount shall not become available for obligation until August 1, 1998, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 1999.
    In addition, contingent on enactment of legislation establishing 
the Medical Collections Fund, such sums as may be derived pursuant to 
38 U.S.C. 1729(g) shall be deposited to such Fund and may be 
transferred to this account, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of this account.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
73, to remain available until September 30, 1999, $267,000,000, plus 
reimbursements.

      medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, architectural, engineering, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including site acquisition; engineering and 
architectural activities not charged to project cost; and research and 
development in building construction technology; $60,160,000, plus 
reimbursements.

                   general post fund, national homes

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8, which shall be transferred from the ``General post 
fund'': Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $70,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $54,000, which shall be transferred from the ``General 
post fund'', as authorized by Public Law 102-54, section 8.

                      Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of overseas 
employee mail; $786,385,000:  Provided, That funds under this heading 
shall be available to administer the Service Members Occupational 
Conversion and Training Act.

                        national cemetery system

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery System, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of three passenger motor vehicles for use in cemeterial 
operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $84,183,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$31,013,000.

                      construction, major projects

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 38, 
United States Code, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
$4,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $92,800,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the $32,100,000 provided under 
this heading in Public Law 104-204 for a replacement hospital at Travis 
Air Force Base, Fairfield, CA, shall not be obligated for that purpose 
but shall be available instead to implement the decisions reached as a 
result of the capital facility recommendations contained in the final 
report entitled ``Assessment of Veterans Health Care Needs in Northern 
California,'' (Department of Veterans Affairs Contract No. V101 (93)P-
1444): Provided further, That except for advance planning of projects 
funded through the advance planning fund and the design of projects 
funded through the design fund, none of these funds shall be used for 
any project which has not been considered and approved by the Congress 
in the budgetary process: Provided further, That funds provided in this 
appropriation for fiscal year 1998, for each approved project shall be 
obligated (1) by the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
September 30, 1998, and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract 
by September 30, 1999: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
promptly report in writing to the Comptroller General and to the 
Committees on Appropriations any approved major construction project in 
which obligations are not incurred within the time limitations 
established above; and the Comptroller General shall review the report 
in accordance with the procedures established by section 1015 of the 
Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (title X of Public Law 93-344): 
Provided further, That no funds from any other account except the 
``Parking revolving fund'', may be obligated for constructing, 
altering, extending, or improving a project which was approved in the 
budget process and funded in this account until one year after 
substantial completion and beneficial occupancy by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs of the project or any part thereof with respect to 
that part only.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
sections 316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 
of title 38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project 
is less than $4,000,000; $166,300,000, to remain available until 
expended, along with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, 
minor projects'' appropriations which are hereby made available for any 
project where the estimated cost is less than $4,000,000: Provided, 
That funds in this account shall be available for (1) repairs to any of 
the nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
Department which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any 
natural disaster or catastrophe, and (2) temporary measures necessary 
to prevent or to minimize further loss by such causes.

                         parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109, 
income from fees collected, to remain available until expended, which 
shall be available for all authorized expenses except operations and 
maintenance costs, which will be funded from ``Medical care''.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8131-
8137, $80,000,000, to remain available until expended.

        grants for the construction of state veteran cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 2408, $10,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. Any appropriation for fiscal year 1998 for ``Compensation 
and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and 
indemnities'' may be transferred to any other of the mentioned 
appropriations.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1998 for salaries and expenses shall be 
available for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'', and the ``Parking 
revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for 
or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 104. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs shall be available for hospitalization or examination 
of any persons (except beneficiaries entitled under the laws bestowing 
such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under 5 
U.S.C. 7901-7904 or 42 U.S.C. 5141-5204), unless reimbursement of cost 
is made to the ``Medical care'' account at such rates as may be fixed 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1998 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
shall be available for payment of prior year accrued obligations 
required to be recorded by law against the corresponding prior year 
accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 1997.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations accounts available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 1998 shall be available to pay prior 
year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 1998, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the National 
Service Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1920), the Veterans' Special 
Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1923), and the United States Government 
Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1955), reimburse the ``General operating 
expenses'' account for the cost of administration of the insurance 
programs financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement 
shall be made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in an 
insurance program in fiscal year 1998, that are available for dividends 
in that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of an insurance program exceeds the amount of surplus 
earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be made only 
to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for fiscal year 
1998, which is properly allocable to the provision of each insurance 
program and to the provision of any total disability income insurance 
included in such insurance program.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                       Public and Indian Housing

                        housing certificate fund

    For activities and assistance to prevent the involuntary 
displacement of low-income families, the elderly and the disabled 
because of the loss of affordable housing stock, expiration of subsidy 
contracts (other than contracts for which amounts are provided under 
another head) or expiration of use restrictions, or other changes in 
housing assistance arrangements, and for other purposes, 
$10,693,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
the total amount provided under this heading, $9,200,000,000 shall be 
for assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437) for use in connection with expiring or terminating section 8 
subsidy contracts including, where appropriate, congregate care 
services associated with the expiring or terminating contracts: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may determine not to apply section 
8(o)(6)(B) of the Act to housing vouchers during fiscal year 1998: 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$1,150,000,000 shall be for amendments to section 8 contracts other 
than contracts for projects developed under section 202 of the Housing 
Act of 1959, as amended: Provided further, That of the total amount 
provided under this heading, $343,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental 
assistance under the United States Housing Act including assistance to 
relocate residents of properties (i) that are owned by the Secretary 
and being disposed of or (ii) that are discontinuing section 8 project-
based assistance; for the conversion of section 23 projects to 
assistance under section 8; for funds to carry out the family 
unification program; and for the relocation of witnesses in connection 
with efforts to combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to 
a request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency: Provided 
further, That of the total amount made available in the preceding 
proviso, $40,000,000 shall be made available to nonelderly disabled 
families affected by the designation of a public housing development 
under section 7 of such Act or the establishment of preferences in 
accordance with section 651 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1361l).

                      public housing capital fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program under the United States 
Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437), $2,500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended for modernization of existing public 
housing projects as authorized under section 14 of such Act: Provided, 
That of the total amount, $30,000,000 shall be for carrying out 
activities under section 6(j) of such Act and technical assistance for 
the inspection of public housing units, contract expertise, and 
training and technical assistance directly or indirectly, under grants, 
contracts, or cooperative agreements, to assist in the oversight and 
management of public housing (whether or not the housing is being 
modernized with assistance under this proviso) or tenant-based 
assistance, including, but not limited to, an annual resident survey, 
data collection and analysis, training and technical assistance by or 
to officials and employees of the Department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents in connection with the public housing program 
and for lease adjustments to section 23 projects: Provided further, 
That of the amount available under this heading, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use up to $60,000,000 for a public 
and assisted housing self-sufficiency program of which up to $5,000,000 
may be used for the Moving to Work Demonstration and up to $5,000,000 
may be used for the Tenant Opportunity Program: Provided further, That, 
for the self-sufficiency activities, the Secretary may make grants to 
public housing agencies (including Indian housing authorities), 
nonprofit corporations, and other appropriate entities for a supportive 
services program to assist residents of public and assisted housing, 
former residents of such housing receiving tenant-based assistance 
under section 8 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), and other low-income 
families and individuals to become self-sufficient: Provided, That the 
program shall provide supportive services, principally for the benefit 
of public housing residents, to the elderly and the disabled, and to 
families with children where the head of household would benefit from 
the receipt of supportive services and is working, seeking work, or is 
preparing for work by participating in job training or educational 
programs: Provided further, That the supportive services may include 
congregate services for the elderly and disabled, service coordinators, 
and coordinated educational, training, and other supportive services, 
including academic skills training, job search assistance, assistance 
related to retaining employment, vocational and entrepreneurship 
development and support programs, transportation, and child care: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall require applications to 
demonstrate firm commitments of funding or services from other sources: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall select public and Indian 
housing agencies to receive assistance under this head on a competitive 
basis, taking into account the quality of the proposed program, 
including any innovative approaches, the extent of the proposed 
coordination of supportive services, the extent of commitments of 
funding or services from other sources, the extent to which the 
proposed program includes reasonably achievable, quantifiable goals for 
measuring performance under the program over a three-year period, the 
extent of success an agency has had in carrying out other comparable 
initiatives, and other appropriate criteria established by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That all balances, as of September 30, 
1997, of funds heretofore provided (other than for Indian families) for 
the development or acquisition costs of public housing, for 
modernization of existing public housing projects, for public housing 
amendments, for public housing modernization and development technical 
assistance, for lease adjustments under the section 23 program, and for 
the Family Investment Centers program, shall be transferred to and 
merged with amounts made available under this heading.

                     public housing operating fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payments to public housing agencies for operating subsidies for 
low-income housing projects as authorized by section 9 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937, including the costs associated with 
congregate care and supportive services, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), 
$2,900,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That all 
balances outstanding, as of September 30, 1997, of funds heretofore 
provided (other than for Indian families) for payments to public 
housing agencies for operating subsidies for low-income housing 
projects, shall be transferred to and merged with amounts made 
available under this heading.

             drug elimination grants for low-income housing

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For grants to public and Indian housing agencies for use in 
eliminating crime in public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
11901-11908, for grants for federally assisted low-income housing 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11909, and for drug information clearinghouse 
services authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11921-11925, $290,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $10,000,000 shall be for grants, 
technical assistance, contracts and other assistance training, program 
assessment, and execution for or on behalf of public housing agencies, 
resident organizations, and Indian Tribes and their Tribally designated 
housing entities (including the cost of necessary travel for 
participants in such training); $10,000,000 shall be used in connection 
with efforts to combat violent crime in public and assisted housing 
under the Operation Safe Home Program administered by the Inspector 
General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development; and 
$5,000,000 shall be provided to the Office of Inspector General for 
Operation Safe Home: Provided, That the term ``drug-related crime'', as 
defined in 42 U.S.C. 11905(2), shall also include other types of crime 
as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 5130(c) of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 
11909(c)), the Secretary may determine not to use any such funds to 
provide public housing youth sports grants.

     revitalization of severely distressed public housing (hope vi)

    For grants to public housing agencies for assisting in the 
demolition of obsolete public housing projects or portions thereof, the 
revitalization (where appropriate) of sites (including remaining public 
housing units) on which such projects are located, replacement housing 
which will avoid or lessen concentrations of very low-income families, 
and tenant-based assistance in accordance with section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937; and for providing replacement housing and 
assisting tenants to be displaced by the demolition, $550,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which the Secretary may use up to 
$10,000,000 for technical assistance, to be provided directly or 
indirectly by grants, contracts or cooperative agreements, including 
training and cost of necessary travel for participants in such 
training, by or to officials and employees of the Department and of 
public housing agencies and to residents: Provided, That of the amount 
made available under this head, $50,000,000 shall be made available, 
including up to $10,000,000 for Heritage House in Kansas City, 
Missouri, for the demolition of obsolete elderly public housing 
projects and the replacement, where appropriate, and revitalization of 
the elderly public housing as new communities for the elderly designed 
to meet the special needs and physical requirements of the elderly: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this title shall be 
used for any purpose that is not provided for herein, in the Housing 
Act of 1937, in the Appropriations Acts for Veterans Affairs, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies, for the fiscal years 
1993, 1994, and 1995, and the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and 
Appropriations Act of 1996: Provided further, That none of such funds 
shall be used directly or indirectly by granting competitive advantage 
in awards to settle litigation or pay judgments, unless expressly 
permitted herein.

                  native american housing block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-330), $485,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $5,000,000 shall be used to support 
the inspection of Indian housing units, contract expertise, training, 
and technical assistance in the oversight and management of Indian 
housing and tenant-based assistance, including up to $200,000 for 
related travel: Provided, That of the amount available under this head, 
$5,000,000 shall be made available for the credit subsidy cost of 
guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, as 
authorized under section 601 of the Native American Housing Assistance 
and Self-Determination Act: Provided further, That these funds are 
available for the Secretary, in conjunction with Native American 
groups, Indian tribes and their tribally designated housing entities, 
for a demonstration on ways to enhance economic growth, access to 
private capital, and encourage the investment and participation of 
traditional financial institutions in tribal and other Native American 
areas: Provided, further: That all balances outstanding as of September 
30, 1997, previously appropriated under the headings ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'', ``Development of Additional New 
Subsidized Housing'', ``Preserving Existing Housing Development'', 
``HOME Investment Partnerships Program'', ``Emergency Shelter Grants 
Program'', and ``Homeless Assistance Funds'', identified for Indian 
Housing Authorities and other agencies primarily serving Indians or 
Indian areas, shall be transferred to and merged with amounts made 
under this heading.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 3739) 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$73,800,000.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901), $204,000,000, to remain available until expended.

           capital grants/capital loans preservation account

    That of any amounts recaptured in excess of $250,000,000 from 
interest reduction payment contracts for section 236 contracts 
recaptured during fiscal year 1998, that excess amount shall be 
available for use in conjunction with properties that are eligible for 
assistance under the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident 
Homeownership Act of 1990 (LIHPRHA) or the Emergency Low Income Housing 
Preservation Act of 1987 (ELIHPA) for projects that are currently 
eligible for funding, as provided under the VA/HUD Fiscal Year 1997 
Appropriations Act: Provided, That the queue shall be reordered so that 
one project is funded per State using the current order of the funding 
queue for reordering the queue and 3 projects per HUD region with each 
project reordered (1) on the basis of the lowest vacancy rates for the 
areas where each project is located and, where necessary, (2) using the 
current order of the funding queue for reordering the queue, where 
necessary: Provided further, That an owner of eligible low-income 
housing may prepay the mortgage or request voluntary termination of a 
mortgage insurance contract, so long as said owner agrees not to raise 
rents for sixty days after such prepayment: Provided further, that all 
appraisals of each property in the queue shall be revised to reflect 
the existing value of the property: Provided further, That, to be 
eligible, each development shall have been determined to have 
preservation equity at least equal to the lesser of $5,000 per unit or 
$500,000 per project or the equivalent of four times the most recently 
published monthly fair market rent for the areas in which the project 
is located while considering the appropriate unit size for all of the 
units in the eligible project: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
modify the regulatory agreement to permit owners and priority 
purchasers to retain rental income in excess of the basic rental charge 
projects assisted under section 236 of the National Housing Act, for 
the purpose of preserving the low- and moderate-income character of the 
housing: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, subject to the availability of appropriated funds, each low-income 
family who is elderly or disabled or is residing in a low-vacancy area, 
residing in the housing on the date of payment or voluntary 
termination, and whose rent, as a result of a rent increase occurring 
no later than one year after the date the prepayment, exceeds 30 
percent of adjusted income, shall be offered tenant-based assistance in 
accordance with section 8 or any successor program, under which the 
family shall pay no less for rent than it paid on such date: Provided 
further, That any family receiving tenant-based assistance under the 
preceding proviso may elect (1) to remain in the unit of the housing 
and the rent exceeds the fair market rent or payment standard, if 
applicable, the rent shall be deemed to be the applicable standard, so 
long as the administering public housing agency finds that the rent is 
reasonable in comparison with rents charged for comparable unassisted 
housing units in the market or (2) to move the housing and the rent 
will be subject to the fair market of the payment standard, as 
applicable, under existing program rules and procedures: Provided 
further, That the tenant-based assistance made available under the 
preceding two provisos are in lieu of benefits provided under 
subsections 223 (b), (c), and (d) of the Low-Income Housing 
Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990: Provided further, 
That any sales shall be funded using the capital grant available under 
subsections 223(d)(3)(A) of LIHPRHA: Provided further, That any 
extensions shall be funded using a non-interest-bearing capital 
(direct) loan by the Secretary not in excess of the amount of the cost 
of rehabilitation approved in the plan of action plus 65 percent of the 
property's preservation equity and under such other terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided further, That any 
capital grant or capital loan, including rehabilitation costs, shall be 
limited to four times the fair market rent for fiscal year 1998 for the 
area in which the project is located, using the appropriate apartment 
sizes: Provided further, That section 241(f) of the National Housing 
Act is repealed and insurance under such section shall not be offered 
as an incentive under LIHPHRA and ELIPHA: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall, at the 
request of an owner or a priority purchaser, approve a one-time rent 
increase of up to 10 percent: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, priority purchasers may utilize assistance 
under the Community Development Block Grant program, the HOME 
Investment Partnerships Act or the Low Income Housing Tax Credit: 
Provided further, That projects with approved plans of action may 
submit revised plans of action which conform to these requirements by 
March 15, 1998, and retain the new priority for funding under these 
provisos.

                   community development block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out a community 
development grants program as authorized by title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 
U.S.C. 5301), $4,600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That $67,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes 
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of the Act; $2,100,000 shall be 
available as a grant to the Housing Assistance Council; $1,500,000 
shall be available as a grant to the National American Indian Housing 
Council; $30,000,000 shall be for grants pursuant to section 107 of 
such Act; $12,000,000 shall be for the Community Outreach Partnership 
program; $30,000,000 shall be made available for ``Capacity Building 
for Community Development and Affordable Housing,'' as authorized by 
section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-120) 
with not less than $10,000,000 of the funding to be used in rural 
areas, including tribal areas: Provided further, That not to exceed 20 
percent of any grant made with funds appropriated herein (other than a 
grant made available under the preceding proviso to the Housing 
Assistance Council or the National American Indian Housing Council, or 
a grant using funds under section 107(b)(3) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended) shall be expended for 
``Planning and Management Development'' and ``Administration'' as 
defined in regulations promulgated by the Department.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $35,000,000 shall be available for 
youthbuild program activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, and 
such activities shall be an eligible activity with respect to any funds 
made available under this heading. Local youthbuild programs that 
demonstrate an ability to leverage private and nonprofit funding shall 
be given a priority for youthbuild funding.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $60,000,000 shall be available for the 
lead-based paint hazard reduction program as authorized under sections 
1011 and 1053 of the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 
1992.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading, $30,000,000 shall 
be available for the New Approach Anti-Drug program for competitive 
grants to entities managing or operating public housing developments, 
federally assisted multifamily housing developments, or other 
multifamily housing development for low-income families supported by 
non-Federal Governmental entities or similar housing developments 
supported by nonprofit private sources; to reimburse local law 
enforcement entities for additional police presence in and around such 
housing developments; to provide or augment such security services by 
other entities or employees of the recipient agency; to assist in the 
investigation and/or prosecution of drug related criminal activity in 
and around such developments; and to provide assistance for the 
development of capital improvements at such developments directly 
relating to the security of such developments: Provided, That such 
grants be made on a competitive basis as specified in section 102 of 
the HUD Reform Act.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading $42,000,000 shall 
be available for the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Agriculture, to make grants, not to exceed $7,000,000 each, for rural 
and tribal areas, including at least one Native American area in 
Alaska, to test out comprehensive approaches to developing a job base 
through economic development, developing affordable low- and moderate-
income rental and homeownership housing, and the investment of both 
private and nonprofit capital.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading, $40,000,000 for 
the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) to finance a variety of 
efforts, including those identified in the Senate committee report, 
that promote economic revitalization that links people to jobs and 
supportive services. Failure to fund any project identified for EDI 
funds in the Senate committee report shall result in all funding under 
this paragraph to be allocated as funding under the Community 
Development Block Grant Program as authorized under title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $29,000,000, as authorized by 
section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,261,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation 
on outstanding obligations guaranteed in section 108(k) of the Housing 
and Community Development Act. In addition, for administrative expenses 
to carry out the guaranteed loan program, $1,000,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for departmental 
salaries and expenses.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That up to $7,000,000 shall be available for 
the development and operation of integrated community development 
management information systems: Provided further, That $20,000,000 
shall be available for Housing Counseling under section 106 of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968.

                       supportive housing program

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
389 and prior laws for the Supportive Housing Demonstration Program, as 
authorized by the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, 
$6,000,000 of funds recaptured during fiscal year 1998 shall be 
rescinded.

                           shelter plus care

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
389 and prior laws for the Shelter Plus Care program, as authorized by 
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, $4,000,000 of funds 
recaptured during fiscal year 1998 shall be rescinded.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act, as amended); the supportive housing program (as authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized under the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist homeless 
individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the shelter plus care program (as authorized under 
subtitle F of title IV of such Act), $823,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                            Housing Programs

                    housing for special populations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For assistance for the purchase, construction, acquisition, or 
development of additional public and subsidized housing units for low 
income families under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended 
(42 U.S.C. 1437), not otherwise provided for, $839,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $645,000,000 shall be for capital advances, 
including amendments to capital advance contracts, for housing for the 
elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and for project rental assistance, and amendments to contracts 
for project rental assistance, for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) 
of the Housing Act of 1959, and for supportive services associated with 
the housing; and $194,000,000 shall be for capital advances, including 
amendments to capital advance contracts, for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, for project rental 
assistance, for amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, 
and supportive services associated with the housing for persons with 
disabilities as authorized by section 811 of such Act: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may designate up to 25 percent of the 
amounts earmarked under this paragraph for section 811 of such Act for 
tenant-based assistance, as authorized under that section, including 
such authority as may be waived under the next proviso, which 
assistance is five years in duration: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive any provision of section 202 of the Housing Act of 
1959 and section 811 of the National Affordable Housing Act (including 
the provisions governing the terms and conditions of project rental 
assistance and tenant-based assistance) that the Secretary determines 
is not necessary to achieve the objectives of these programs, or that 
otherwise impedes the ability to develop, operate or administer 
projects assisted under these programs, and may make provision for 
alternative conditions or terms where appropriate: Provided further, 
That all obligated and unobligated balances remaining in either the 
``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' account or the 
``Development of Additional New Subsidized Housing'' account for 
capital advances, including amendments to capital advances, for housing 
for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 
1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance, and amendments to 
contracts for project rental assistance, for supportive housing for the 
elderly, under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, shall be transferred to 
and merged with the amounts for those purposes under this heading; and, 
all obligated and unobligated balances remaining in either the ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'' account or the ``Development of 
Additional New Subsidized Housing'' account for capital advances, 
including amendments to capital advances, for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, and for project 
rental assistance, and amendments to contracts for project rental 
assistance, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as 
authorized under section 811 of such Act, shall be transferred to and 
merged with the amounts for those purposes under this heading.

                    other assisted housing programs

                       rental housing assistance

                              (rescission)

    The limitation otherwise applicable to the maximum payments that 
may be required in any fiscal year by all contracts entered into under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) is reduced 
in fiscal year 1998 by not more than $7,350,000 in uncommitted balances 
of authorizations provided for this purpose in appropriation Acts: 
Provided, That up to $125,000,000 of recaptured budget authority shall 
be canceled.

                         flexible subsidy fund

                          (transfer of funds)

    From the Rental Housing Assistance Fund, all uncommitted balances 
of excess rental charges as of September 30, 1997, and any collections 
made during fiscal year 1998, shall be transferred to the Flexible 
Subsidy Fund, as authorized by section 236(g) of the National Housing 
Act, as amended.

                     federal housing administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 1998, commitments to guarantee loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed a loan principal of $110,000,000,000.
    During fiscal year 1998, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $200,000,000: Provided, That the foregoing 
amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with sales of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance 
Fund.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $333,421,000, to be derived from the FHA-
mutual mortgage insurance guaranteed loans receipt account, of which 
not to exceed $326,309,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation 
for departmental salaries and expenses; and of which not to exceed 
$12,112,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

             fha--general and special risk program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), 
including the cost of loan guarantee modifications (as that term is 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
amended), $81,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, of up to $17,400,000,000: Provided 
further, That any amounts made available in any prior appropriations 
Act for the cost (as such term is defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans that are 
obligations of the funds established under section 238 or 519 of the 
National Housing Act that have not been obligated or that are 
deobligated shall be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the making of such guarantees and shall 
remain available until expended, notwithstanding the expiration of any 
period of availability otherwise applicable to such amounts.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238(a), and 519(a) of the 
National Housing Act, shall not exceed $120,000,000; of which not to 
exceed $100,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with 
the sale of multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and 
formerly insured under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection 
with the sale of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary 
and formerly insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $222,305,000, of which 
$218,134,000, including $25,000,000 for the enforcement of housing 
standards on FHA-insured multifamily projects,  shall be transferred to 
the appropriation for departmental salaries and expenses; and of which 
$4,171,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

                government national mortgage association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 1998, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $130,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $9,383,000, to be derived from the 
Ginnie Mae-guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan 
receipt account, of which not to exceed $9,383,000 shall be transferred 
to the appropriation for salaries and expenses.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $34,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999, of which 
$10,000,000 shall be to carry out activities pursuant to such section 
561. No funds made available under this heading shall be used to lobby 
the executive or legislative branches of the Federal Government in 
connection with a specific contract, grant or loan.

                     Management and Administration

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided 
for, including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $954,826,000, of which $544,443,000 shall be 
provided from the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, 
$9,383,000 shall be provided from funds of the Government National 
Mortgage Association, and $1,000,000 shall be provided from the 
``Community Development Grants Program'' account.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$57,850,000, of which $16,283,000 shall be provided from the various 
funds of the Federal Housing Administration and $5,000,000 shall be 
provided from the amount earmarked for Operation Safe Home in the 
``Drug Elimination Grants for Low Income Housing'' account.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety 
and Soundness Act of 1992, $15,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be derived from the Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight 
Fund: Provided, That not to exceed such amount shall be available from 
the General Fund of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur 
obligations and make expenditures pending the receipt of collections to 
the Fund: Provided further, That the General Fund amount shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final appropriation from the General Fund estimated at not 
more than $0.

                       administrative provisions

                               extenders

    Sec. 201. (a) One-for-One Replacement of Public and Indian 
Housing.--Section 1002(d) of Public Law 104-19 is amended by striking 
``1997'' and inserting ``1998''.
    (b) Streamlining Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance.--Section 203(d) 
of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 is 
amended by striking ``fiscal years 1996 and 1997'' and inserting 
``fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998''.
    (c) Section 8 Rent Adjustments.--Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
            (1) in the third sentence, by striking ``fiscal year 1997'' 
        and inserting ``fiscal years 1997 and 1998'';
            (2) in the last sentence, by striking ``fiscal year 1997'' 
        and inserting ``fiscal years 1997 and 1998''.
            (3) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``For'' and 
        inserting ``Except for assistance under the certificate 
        program, for'';
            (4) after the fourth sentence, by inserting the following 
        new sentence: ``In the case of assistance under the certificate 
        program, 0.01 shall be subtracted from the amount of the annual 
        adjustment factor (except that the factor shall not be reduced 
        to less than 1.0), and the adjusted rent shall not exceed the 
        rent for a comparable unassisted unit of similar quality, type, 
        and age in the market area.''; and
            (5) in the last sentence, by--
                    (A) striking ``sentence'' and inserting ``two 
                sentences''; and
                    (B) inserting ``, fiscal year 1996 prior to April 
                26, 1996, and fiscal year 1997'' after ``1995''.

             delay reissuance of vouchers and certificates

    Sec. 202. Section 403(c) of The Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal years 1996 and 1997'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998''; and
            (2) by inserting before the semicolon the following: ``and 
        October 1, 1998 for assistance made available during fiscal 
        year 1998''.

                      financing adjustment factors

    Sec. 203. Fifty per centum of the amounts of budget authority, or 
in lieu thereof 50 per centum of the cash amounts associated with such 
budget authority, that are recaptured from projects described in 
section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Amendments Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-628, 102 Stat. 3224, 3268) shall 
be rescinded, or in the case of cash, shall be remitted to the 
Treasury, and such amounts of budget authority or cash recaptured and 
not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury shall be used by State 
housing finance agencies or local governments or local housing agencies 
with projects approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development for which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in 
accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, 
the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the budget authority or 
cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury to 
provide project owners with incentives to refinance their project at a 
lower interest rate.

                       annual adjustment factors

    Sec. 204. Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 is amended by inserting the following new sentences at the end: 
``In establishing annual adjustment factors for units in new 
construction and substantial rehabilitation projects, the Secretary 
shall take into account the fact that debt service is a fixed expense. 
The immediately foregoing sentence shall be effective only during 
fiscal year 1998.''.

                   community development block grant

    Sec. 205. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
$7,100,000 appropriated for an industrial park at 18th Street and 
Indiana Avenue shall be made available by the Secretary instead to 18th 
and Vine for rehabilitation and infrastructure development associated 
with the ``Negro Leagues Baseball Museum'' and the Jazz Museum.

                      fair housing and free speech

    Sec. 206. None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 1998 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.

                           account transition

    Sec. 207. The amounts of obligated balances in appropriations 
accounts, as set forth in title II of the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1998 and prior Acts that are recaptured hereafter, 
to the extent not governed by the specific language in an account or 
provision in this Act, shall be held in reserve subject to 
reprogramming, notwithstanding any other provision of law.

  requirement for hud to maintain public notice and comment rulemaking

    Sec. 208. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 1998 and for all fiscal years thereafter, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development shall maintain all current requirements under 
part 10 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development's 
regulations (24 CRS part 10) with respect to the Department's policies 
and procedures for the promulgation and issuance of rules, including 
the use of public participation in the rulemaking process.

                 brownfields as eligible cdbg activity

    Sec. 209. States and entitlement communities may use funds 
allocated under the community development block grant program under 
title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 for 
remediation and development activities related to brownfields projects 
in conjunction with the appropriate environmental regulatory agencies.

          partial payment of claims on health care facilities

    Sec. 210. Section 541(a) of the National Housing Act is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by adding ``and health care 
        facilities'' at the end; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or a health care facility 
                (including a nursing home, intermediate care facility, 
                or board and care home (as those terms are defined in 
                section 232), a hospital (as that term is defined in 
                section 242), or a group practice facility (as that 
                term is defined in section 1106)'' after ``1978''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or for keeping the health care 
                facility operational to serve community needs,'' after 
                ``character of the project,''.

             fha multifamily mortgage credit demonstrations

    Sec. 211. Section 542 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1992 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(5) by adding before the period at the 
        end of the first sentence ``, and not more than an additional 
        15,000 units over fiscal year 1998''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (c)(4) inserting 
        after ``fiscal year 1997'' the following: ``and not more than 
        an additional 15,000 units during fiscal year 1998.''.

                       calculation of downpayment

    Sec. 212. Section 203(b) of the National Housing Act is amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 1997'' in paragraph (10)(A) and inserting in 
lieu thereof ``fiscal year 1997 and thereafter''.

          section 8 mark-to-market multifamily housing reform

    Sec. 213. Subtitle B, the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and 
Affordability Act of 1997'', of title II of S. 947, the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997, as passed by the Senate on June 25, 1997, is incorporated 
by reference in this bill, the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Bill, 1998.

                              hope vi nofa

    Sec. 214. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including the 
July 22, 1996 Notice of Funding Availability (61 Fed. Reg. 38024), the 
demolition of units at developments funded under the Notice of Funding 
Availability shall be at the option of the New York City Housing 
Authority and the assistance awarded shall be allocated by the public 
housing agency among other eligible activities under the HOPE VI 
program and without the development costs limitations of the Notice, 
provided that the public housing agency shall not exceed the total cost 
limitations for the public housing agency, as provided by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

                     enhanced disposition authority

    Sec. 215. Section 204 of the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1997 is amended by inserting after ``owned by the Secretary'' the 
following: ``, including, for fiscal year 1998, the provision of grants 
and loans from the General Insurance Fund (12 U.S.C. 1735c) for the 
necessary costs of rehabilitation.

                    TITLE III--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries; 
$23,897,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That where 
station allowance has been authorized by the Department of the Army for 
officers of the Army serving the Army at certain foreign stations, the 
same allowance shall be authorized for officers of the Armed Forces 
assigned to the Commission while serving at the same foreign stations, 
and this appropriation is hereby made available for the payment of such 
allowance: Provided further, That when traveling on business of the 
Commission, officers of the Armed Forces serving as members or as 
Secretary of the Commission may be reimbursed for expenses as provided 
for civilian members of the Commission: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall reimburse other Government agencies, including the 
Armed Forces, for salary, pay, and allowances of personnel assigned to 
it.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$4,000,000.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $45,000,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

       national and community service programs operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in the matter under this heading as the 
``Corporation'') in carrying out programs, activities, and initiatives 
under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (referred to in 
the matter under this heading as the ``Act'') (42 U.S.C. 12501 et 
seq.), $400,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999: 
Provided, That not more than $25,000,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4) of the Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12671(a)(4)): Provided further, That not more than $2,500 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That not more than $59,000,000, to remain available without 
fiscal year limitation, shall be transferred to the National Service 
Trust account for educational awards authorized under subtitle D of 
title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq.): Provided further, That 
not more than $215,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading 
shall be available for grants under the National Service Trust program 
authorized under subtitle C of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12571 et 
seq.) (relating to activities including the Americorps program), of 
which not more than $40,000,000 may be used to administer, reimburse, 
or support any national service program authorized under section 
121(d)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12581(d)(2)): Provided further, That 
not more than $5,500,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be made available for the Points of Light Foundation for 
activities authorized under title III of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12661 et 
seq.): Provided further, That no funds shall be available for national 
service programs run by Federal agencies authorized under section 
121(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12571(b)): Provided further, That to the 
maximum extent feasible, funds appropriated under subtitle C of title I 
of the Act shall be provided in a manner that is consistent with the 
recommendations of peer review panels in order to ensure that priority 
is given to programs that demonstrate quality, innovation, 
replicability, and sustainability: Provided further, That not more than 
$18,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available for the Civilian Community Corps authorized under subtitle E 
of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12611 et seq.): Provided further, That 
not more than $43,000,000 shall be available for school-based and 
community-based service-learning programs authorized under subtitle B 
of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12521 et seq.): Provided further, That 
not more than $30,000,000 shall be available for quality and innovation 
activities authorized under subtitle H of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12853 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $5,000,000 shall 
be available for audits and other evaluations authorized under section 
179 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12639): Provided further, That no funds from 
any other appropriation, or from funds otherwise made available to the 
Corporation, shall be used to pay for personnel compensation and 
benefits, travel, or any other administrative expense for the Board of 
Directors, the Office of the Chief Executive Officer, the Office of the 
Managing Director, the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Office of National and Community Service Programs, the Civilian 
Community Corps, or any field office or staff of the Corporation 
working on the National and Community Service or Civilian Community 
Corps programs: Provided further, That to the maximum extent 
practicable, the Corporation shall increase significantly the level of 
matching funds and in-kind contributions provided by the private 
sector, shall expand significantly the number of educational awards 
provided under subtitle D of title I, and shall reduce the total 
Federal costs per participant in all programs.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $3,000,000.

                       Court of Veterans Appeals

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. sections 7251-7298, 
$9,320,000, of which $790,000, shall be available for the purpose of 
providing financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the 
process and reporting procedures set fourth, under this heading in 
Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase of two 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $11,815,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Environmental Protection Agency

                         science and technology

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended; necessary expenses for 
personnel and related costs and travel expenses, including uniforms, or 
allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; procurement of 
laboratory equipment and supplies; other operating expenses in support 
of research and development; construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project, $600,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
1999.

                 environmental programs and management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for GS-18; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; 
library memberships in societies or associations which issue 
publications to members only or at a price to members lower than to 
subscribers who are not members; construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; and not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,801,000,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 1999.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$28,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                        buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $19,420,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     hazardous substance superfund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111 (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; not to 
exceed $1,400,000,000 (of which $100,000,000 shall not become available 
under September 1, 1998), to remain available until expended, 
consisting of $1,150,000,000, as authorized by section 517(a) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended 
by Public Law 101-508, and $250,000,000 as a payment from general 
revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund as authorized by section 
517(b) of SARA, as amended by Public Law 101-508: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be allocated to other Federal 
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, 
That $11,641,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 111(m) of CERCLA or any other provision of law, 
$68,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to 
carry out activities described in sections 104(i), 111(c)(4), and 
111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 118(f) of SARA: Provided further, That 
$35,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the Agency 
for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to issue in excess of 40 
toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 1998.

                leaking underground storage tank program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, 
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not 
to exceed $75,000 per project, $65,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no more than $7,500,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses.

                           oil spill response

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$15,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not more than 
$8,500,000 of these funds shall be available for administrative 
expenses.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,047,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $1,350,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, and $725,000,000 shall be for 
capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds 
under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended; 
$100,000,000 for architectural, engineering, planning, design, 
construction and related activities in connection with the construction 
of high priority water and wastewater facilities in the area of the 
United States-Mexico Border, after consultation with the appropriate 
border commission; $50,000,000 for grants to the State of Texas for the 
purpose of improving wastewater treatment for colonias; $15,000,000 for 
grants to the State of Alaska to address drinking water and wastewater 
infrastructure needs of rural and Alaska Native Villages as provided by 
section 303 of Public Law 104-182; $82,000,000 for making grants for 
the construction of wastewater and water treatment facilities and 
groundwater protection infrastructure in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified for such grants in the report accompanying this 
Act; and $725,000,000 for grants to States, federally recognized 
tribes, and air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single 
media pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
activities pursuant to the provisions set forth under this heading in 
Public Law 104-134, including grants under section 103 of the Clean Air 
Act for particulate matter monitoring and data collection activities: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, hereafter, 
States may combine the assets of State Revolving Funds (SRFs) 
established under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as 
amended, and title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as 
amended, as security for bond issues to enhance the lending capacity of 
one or both SRFs, but not to acquire the State match for either SRF 
program provided that revenues from the bonds are allocated to the 
purposes of the Safe Drinking Water Act in the same portion as the 
funds are used as security for the bonds: Provided further, That, 
hereafter from funds appropriated under this heading, the Administrator 
is authorized to make grants to federally recognized Indian governments 
for the development of multi-media environmental programs: Provided 
further, That, hereafter, the funds available under this heading for 
grants to States, federally recognized tribes, and air pollution 
control agencies for multi-media or single media pollution prevention, 
control and abatement and related activities may also be used for the 
direct implementation by the Federal Government of a program required 
by law in the absence of an acceptable State or tribal program.

                          working capital fund

    Under this heading in Public Law 104-204, delete the following: the 
phrases, ``franchise fund pilot to be known as the''; ``as authorized 
by section 403 of Public Law 103-356,''; and ``as provided in such 
section''; and the final proviso. After the phrase, ``to be 
available'', insert ``without fiscal year limitation''.

                   Executive Office of the President

                office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $4,932,000.

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, $2,436,000.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $34,265,000, to be derived from the Bank Insurance Fund, the 
Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                            disaster relief

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$320,000,000, and, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 5203, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated for the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency may be used to perform repair, 
replacement, reconstruction, or restoration activities with respect to 
(1) trees and other natural features belonging to State and local 
governments that are located within parks and recreational facilities, 
as well as on the grounds of other publicly-owned property; (2) parks, 
recreational areas, marinas, golf courses, stadiums, arenas or other 
similar facilities which generate any portion of their operational 
revenue through user fees, rents, admission charges, or similar fees; 
or (3) beaches.

            disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,495,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $341,000.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; 
expenses of attendance of cooperating officials and individuals at 
meetings concerned with the work of emergency preparedness; 
transportation in connection with the continuity of Government programs 
to the same extent and in the same manner as permitted the Secretary of 
a Military Department under 10 U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $171,773,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $4,803,000.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 
1978, $202,146,000.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    To carry out an emergency food and shelter program pursuant to 
title III of Public Law 100-77, as amended, $100,000,000: Provided, 
That total administrative costs shall not exceed three and one-half 
percent of the total appropriation.

                     national flood insurance fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, and the National Flood Insurance 
Reform Act of 1994, not to exceed $21,610,000 for salaries and expenses 
associated with flood mitigation and flood insurance operations, and 
not to exceed $78,464,000 for flood mitigation, including up to 
$20,000,000 for expenses under section 1366 of the National Flood 
Insurance Act, which amount shall be available for transfer to the 
National Flood Mitigation Fund until September 30, 1999. In fiscal year 
1998, no funds in excess of (1) $47,000,000 for operating expenses, (2) 
$375,165,000 for agents' commissions and taxes, and (3) $50,000,000 for 
interest on Treasury borrowings shall be available from the National 
Flood Insurance Fund without prior notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations. For fiscal year 1998, flood insurance rates shall not 
exceed the level authorized by the National Flood Insurance Reform Act 
of 1994.

                        administrative provision

    The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
promulgate through rulemaking a methodology for assessment and 
collection of fees to be assessed and collected beginning in fiscal 
year 1998 applicable to persons subject to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency's radiological emergency preparedness regulations. 
The aggregate charges assessed pursuant to this section during fiscal 
year 1998 shall approximate, but not be less than, 100 per centum of 
the amounts anticipated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to 
be obligated for its radiological emergency preparedness program for 
such fiscal year. The methodology for assessment and collection of fees 
shall be fair and equitable, and shall reflect the full amount of costs 
of providing radiological emergency planning, preparedness, response 
and associated services. Such fees shall be assessed in a manner that 
reflects the use of agency resources for classes of regulated persons 
and the administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received 
pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury as offsetting receipts. Assessment and collection of such fees 
are only authorized during fiscal year 1998.

                    General Services Administration

                    consumer information center fund

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,419,000, to be 
deposited into the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the 
appropriations, revenues and collections deposited into the fund shall 
be available for necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center 
activities in the aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Appropriations, 
revenues, and collections accruing to this fund during fiscal year 1998 
in excess of $7,500,000 shall remain in the fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Consumer Information Center may accept and deposit to this account, 
during fiscal year 1998 and hereafter, gifts for the purpose of 
defraying its costs of printing, publishing, and distributing consumer 
information and educational materials and undertaking other consumer 
information activities; may expend those gifts for those purposes, in 
addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available; and the 
balance shall remain available for expenditure for such purpose.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of human space flight research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, and services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including repair, rehabilitation, and 
modification of real and personal property, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $5,326,500,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1999.

                  science, aeronautics and technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics and technology research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
and services; maintenance; construction of facilities including repair, 
rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal property, and 
acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities 
including operations, production, and services; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft, $5,642,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                            mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for human space flight programs and science, 
aeronautical, and technology programs, including research operations 
and support; space communications activities including operations, 
production and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of facilities, minor 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, environmental compliance and restoration, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
program management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $35,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 33 
for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
$2,513,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$18,300,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities as authorized by law, such amount available 
for such activity shall remain available until expended. This provision 
does not apply to the amounts appropriated in ``Mission support'' 
pursuant to the authorization for repair, rehabilitation and 
modification of facilities, minor construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'' and ``Office of Inspector 
General'', amounts made available by this Act for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall remain available until September 30, 1998 and may 
be used to enter into contracts for training, investigations, costs 
associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

    During fiscal year 1998, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions, as authorized by the National Credit Union Central Liquidity 
Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795), shall not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, 
That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity Facility in 
fiscal year 1998 shall not exceed $203,000.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and the Act 
to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of 
aircraft and purchase of flight services for research support; 
acquisition of aircraft; $2,524,700,000, of which not to exceed 
$228,530,000 shall remain available until expended for Polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program; the balance to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That receipts for 
scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the amount appropriated is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That $40,000,000 of 
the funds available under this heading shall be made available for a 
comprehensive research initiative on plant genomes, including the corn 
genome: Provided further, That $359,000,000 of the funds available 
under this heading shall not be made available for initiatives in 
Knowledge and Distributed Intelligence and Life and Earth's Environment 
until the agency submits appropriate milestones to be achieved by the 
initiatives in fiscal year 1998.

                        major research equipment

    For necessary expenses of major construction projects pursuant to 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, $85,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $625,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That to the extent that 
the amount of this appropriation is less than the total amount 
authorized to be appropriated for included program activities, all 
amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing 
Act for those program activities or their subactivities shall be 
reduced proportionally.

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services and headquarters relocation; $136,950,000: Provided, That 
contracts may be entered into under ``Salaries and expenses'' in fiscal 
year 1998 for maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other 
services, to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$4,850,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $50,000,000.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $23,413,000: Provided, 
That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt this 
appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he deems 
such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into 
the Armed Forces of the United States.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this Act 
are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has been 
placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not 
exceed the amounts set forth therefore in the budget estimates 
submitted for the appropriations: Provided, That this provision does 
not apply to accounts that do not contain an object classification for 
travel: Provided further, That this section shall not apply to travel 
performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal boards 
of the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with 
major disasters or emergencies declared or determined by the President 
under the provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of 
Inspector General in connection with audits and investigations; or to 
payments to interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the 
budget schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, 
II, and III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially 
submitted for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may 
correspondingly exceed the amounts therefore set forth in the estimates 
in the same proportion.
    Sec. 402. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 403. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).
    Sec. 404. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 405. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
            (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee 
        of the United States unless--
                    (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is 
                part of, a voucher or abstract which describes the 
                payee or payees and the items or services for which 
                such expenditure is being made, or
                    (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
                certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, 
                is specifically authorized by law; and
            (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the 
        General Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from 
        such audit.
    Sec. 406. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between his domicile and his 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under 31 U.S.C. 1344 or 5 U.S.C. 7905.
    Sec. 407. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share 
in the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest 
of the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 408. None of the funds in this Act may be used, directly or 
through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for payment of the 
salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal Government or a 
grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate paid for level 
IV of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically authorized by law.
    Sec. 409. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
pay the expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties 
intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein 
affects the authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission 
pursuant to section 7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 
2056 et seq.).
    Sec. 410. Except as otherwise provided under existing law or under 
an existing Executive Order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts 
which are (1) a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of 
all contracts entered into within twenty-four months prior to the date 
on which the list is made available to the public and of all contracts 
on which performance has not been completed by such date. The list 
required by the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall 
include a narrative description of the work to be performed under each 
such contract.
    Sec. 411. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.), for a contract for 
services unless such executive agency (1) has awarded and entered into 
such contract in full compliance with such Act and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, and (2) requires any report prepared pursuant 
to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, analyses and 
manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is substantially 
derived from or substantially includes any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, to contain information concerning (A) the contract 
pursuant to which the report was prepared, and (B) the contractor who 
prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 412. Except as otherwise provided in section 406, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 413. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles 
per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 414. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on 
which the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 415. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds 
made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 416. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    Sec. 417. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1998 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 418. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 419. Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Act as may be 
necessary in carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 1998 
for such corporation or agency except as hereinafter provided: 
Provided, That collections of these corporations and agencies may be 
used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments only to the extent 
expressly provided for in this Act (unless such loans are in support of 
other forms of assistance provided for in this or prior appropriations 
Acts), except that this proviso shall not apply to the mortgage 
insurance or guaranty operations of these corporations, or where loans 
or mortgage purchases are necessary to protect the financial interest 
of the United States Government.
    Sec. 420. Notwithstanding section 320(g) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1330(g)), funds made available 
pursuant to authorization under such section for fiscal year 1998 and 
prior fiscal years may be used for implementing comprehensive 
conservation and management plans.
    Sec. 421. Such funds as may be necessary to carry out the orderly 
termination of the Office of Consumer Affairs shall be made available 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Health and Human Services 
for fiscal year 1998.

                   americorps student loan repayment

    Sec. 422. Not withstanding any other provision of law, the term 
``qualified student loan'' with respect to national service education 
awards shall mean any loan made directly to a student and certified 
through an institution of higher education as necessary to assist the 
student in paying the cost of attendance, in addition to other meanings 
under section 148(b)(7) of the National and Community Service Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.