[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1217 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 153
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1217

                          [Report No. 106-76]

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 14, 1999

Mr. Gregg, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and related agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $82,485,000, of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed 43 permanent positions and 44 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $8,136,000 shall be expended for the Department 
Leadership Program exclusive of augmentation that occurred in these 
offices in fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That not to exceed 41 
permanent positions and 48 full-time equivalent workyears and 
$4,811,000 shall be expended for the Offices of Legislative Affairs and 
Public Affairs: Provided further, That the latter two aforementioned 
offices may utilize non-reimbursable details of career employees within 
the caps described in the aforementioned proviso.

                     joint automated booking system

    For expenses necessary for the nationwide deployment of a Joint 
Automated Booking System, $6,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                       narrowband communications

    For the costs of conversion to narrowband communications as 
mandated by section 104 of the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 903(d)(1)), 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred to any Department of Justice organization upon 
approval by the Attorney General: Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                         counterterrorism fund

    For necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney General, 
$27,000,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse any 
Department of Justice organization for (1) the costs incurred in 
reestablishing the operational capability of an office or facility 
which has been damaged or destroyed as a result of any domestic or 
international terrorist incident; (2) the costs of providing support to 
counter, investigate or prosecute domestic or international terrorism, 
including payment of rewards in connection with these activities; and 
(3) the costs of conducting a terrorism threat assessment of Federal 
agencies and their facilities: Provided, That any Federal agency may be 
reimbursed for the costs of detaining in foreign countries individuals 
accused of acts of terrorism that violate the laws of the United 
States: Provided further, That funds provided under this paragraph 
shall be available only after the Attorney General notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.

               telecommunications carrier compliance fund

    For payments authorized by section 109 of the Communications 
Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (47 U.S.C. 1008), $15,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   administrative review and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration related activities, $30,727,000.
    In addition, $59,251,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $32,049,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $7,176,000.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the 
District of Columbia, $299,260,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 
for litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the funds available in this appropriation, not to 
exceed $55,166,000 shall remain available until expended for office 
automation systems for the legal divisions covered by this 
appropriation, and for the United States Attorneys, the Antitrust 
Division, and offices funded through ``Salaries and Expenses'', General 
Administration: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $1,000 shall be available to the United 
States National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    In addition, $185,740,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, as amended, not to exceed $4,028,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $112,318,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $112,318,000 of offsetting collections derived 
from fees collected in fiscal year 2000 for premerger notification 
filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General Fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2000, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2000 appropriation 
from the General Fund estimated at not more than $0.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including intergovernmental and cooperative agreements, 
$589,478,000; of which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2000, for (1) training personnel in debt 
collection, (2) locating debtors and their property, (3) paying the net 
costs of selling property, and (4) tracking debts owed to the United 
States Government: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of this Act, of the amount made available under this 
heading, not to exceed $20,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged 
with, funds in the ``Federal Prisoner Detention'' appropriations 
account: Provided further, That not to exceed $10,000,000 of those 
funds available for automated litigation support contracts shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$2,500,000 for the operation of the National Advocacy Center shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the expansion of 
existing Violent Crime Task Forces in United States Attorneys Offices 
into demonstration projects, including inter-governmental, inter-local, 
cooperative, and task-force agreements, however denominated, and 
contracts with State and local prosecutorial and law enforcement 
agencies engaged in the investigation and prosecution of violent 
crimes: Provided further, That, in addition to reimbursable full-time 
equivalent workyears available to the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, not to exceed 9,044 positions and 9,312 full-time equivalent 
workyears shall be supported from the funds appropriated in this Act or 
made available during fiscal year 2000 under any other Act for the 
United States Attorneys, of which 2,107 positions and 2,171 full-time 
equivalents shall be dedicated to civil or civil defensive litigation: 
Provided further, That $25,000,000 shall only be available to support 
or establish task forces to enforce Federal laws related to preventing 
the possession by criminals of firearms (as defined in section 921(a) 
of title 18, United States Code), of which $5,000,000 shall be for a 
task force in each of the paired locations of Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, and Camden, New Jersey; Las Cruces, New Mexico, and 
Albuquerque, New Mexico; Savannah, Georgia, and Charleston, South 
Carolina; Baltimore, Maryland, and Prince Georges County, Maryland; and 
Denver, Colorado, and Salt Lake City, Utah.
    In addition, $500,000,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), $112,775,000, to remain available 
until expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System 
Fund: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
deposits to the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be 
necessary to pay refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $112,775,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 589a(b) 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2000, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2000 appropriation from the Fund estimated at $0.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $1,175,000.

         salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service; 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of 
vehicles, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for police-type 
use, without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year, $409,253,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 561(i); 
of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses; and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for 
development, implementation, maintenance and support, and training for 
an automated prisoner information system shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the amount made available under this 
heading may be used to contract with any individual to perform the 
duties of an officer or employee of the United States Marshals Service 
on a temporary or intermittent basis, except for prisoner ground 
transport, service of process, and evictions: Provided further, That 
none of the amount made available under this heading may be used for 
the service of process on any person by an officer or employee of the 
United States Marshals Service, unless such service of process is 
pursuant to a written request made by a judge of the United States (as 
defined in section 451 of title 28, United States Code) and approved by 
the Attorney General.
    In addition, $138,000,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For planning, constructing, renovating, equipping, and maintaining 
United States Marshals Service prisoner-holding space in United States 
courthouses and federal buildings, including the renovation and 
expansion of prisoner movement areas, elevators, and sallyports, 
$9,632,000, to remain available until expended.

 justice prisoner and alien transportation system fund, united states 
                            marshals service

    Beginning in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, payment shall be made 
from the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System Fund for the 
payment of necessary expenses related to the scheduling and 
transportation of United States prisoners and illegal and criminal 
aliens in the custody of the United States Marshals Service, as 
authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, including, without limitation, salaries 
and expenses, operations, and the acquisition, lease, and maintenance 
of aircraft and support facilities: Provided, That the Fund shall be 
reimbursed or credited with advance payments from amounts available to 
the Department of Justice, other Federal agencies, and other sources at 
rates that will recover the expenses of Fund operations, including, 
without limitation, accrual of annual leave and depreciation of plant 
and equipment of the Fund: Provided further, That proceeds from the 
disposal of Fund aircraft shall be credited to the Fund: Provided 
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation, and may be used for operating equipment lease 
agreements that do not exceed 5 years: Provided further, That with 
respect to the transportation of Federal, State, local and territorial 
prisoners and detainees, the lease or rent of aircraft by the Justice 
Prisoner Air Transport System shall be considered use of public 
aircraft pursuant to 49 U.S.C. section 40102(a)(37).
    For the initial capitalization costs of the Fund, $9,000,000.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For expenses, related to United States prisoners in the custody of 
the United States Marshals Service as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, but 
not including expenses otherwise provided for in appropriations 
available to the Attorney General, $500,000,000, as authorized by 28 
U.S.C. 561(i), to remain available until expended.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, 
for expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $110,000,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovations, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto, for protected witness safesites; and of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored vehicles for transportation of protected 
witnesses: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, of the amount made available under this heading, not to exceed 
$15,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds in the 
``Federal Prisoner Detention'' appropriations account.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
established by title X of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $7,199,000.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(A)(ii), (B), (F), 
and (G), as amended, $23,000,000, to be derived from the Department of 
Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                    Radiation Exposure Compensation

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $2,000,000.

         payment to radiation exposure compensation trust fund

    For payments to the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund, 
$20,300,000.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include intergovernmental agreements 
with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in organized 
crime drug trafficking, $304,014,000, of which $20,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this appropriation: 
Provided further, That any unobligated balances remaining available at 
the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the Attorney General for 
reallocation among participating organizations in succeeding fiscal 
years, subject to the reprogramming procedures described in section 605 
of this Act.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States; acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; and 
not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential 
character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted 
for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General, 
$2,692,791,000; of which not to exceed $50,000,000 for automated data 
processing and telecommunications and technical investigative equipment 
and not to exceed $1,000,000 for undercover operations shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001; of which not less than $260,000,000 
shall be for counterterrorism investigations, foreign 
counterintelligence, and other activities related to our national 
security; of which not to exceed $14,000,000 for research, development, 
test, and evaluation shall remain available until expended; and of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 is authorized to be made available for 
making advances for expenses arising out of contractual or reimbursable 
agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged 
in cooperative activities related to violent crime, terrorism, 
organized crime, and drug investigations; and of which $1,500,000 shall 
be available to maintain an independent program office dedicated solely 
to the automation of fingerprint identification services: Provided, 
That not to exceed $65,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses: Provided further, That, including 
reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, not to exceed 27,604 positions and 27,604 
full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds 
appropriated in this Act or made available during fiscal year 2000 
under any other Act for the Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provided 
further, That no funds in this Act may be used to provide ballistics 
imaging equipment to any State or local authority which has obtained 
similar equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy unless the State 
or local authority agrees to return that equipment or to repay that 
grant or subsidy to the Federal Government.
    In addition, $280,501,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $10,287,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to 
be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
$798,187,000, of which not to exceed $1,800,000 for research shall 
remain available until expended, and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 
for purchase of evidence and payments for information, not to exceed 
$10,000,000 for contracting for automated data processing and 
telecommunications equipment, and not to exceed $2,000,000 for 
laboratory equipment, $4,000,000 for technical equipment, and 
$2,000,000 for aircraft replacement retrofit and parts, shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001; and of which not to exceed $50,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.
    In addition, $419,459,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $5,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
administration and enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, 
naturalization, and alien registration, including not to exceed $50,000 
to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be 
expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under 
the certificate of, the Attorney General; acquisition, lease, 
maintenance and operation of aircraft; research related to immigration 
enforcement; for protecting and maintaining the integrity of the 
borders of the United States including, without limitation, equipping, 
maintaining, and making improvements to the infrastructure; and for the 
care and housing of Federal detainees held in the joint Immigration and 
Naturalization Service and United States Marshals Service's Buffalo 
Detention Facility, $1,697,164,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 for 
research shall remain available until expended; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall be available for costs associated with the training 
program for basic officer training, and $5,000,000 is for payments or 
advances arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative 
activities related to immigration; and of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 is to fund or reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs 
associated with the care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled 
illegal aliens: Provided, That none of the funds available to the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service shall be available to pay any 
employee overtime pay in an amount in excess of $20,000 during the 
calendar year beginning January 1, 2000: Provided further, That 
uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That, including reimbursable 
full-time equivalent workyears available to the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service, not to exceed 29,784 positions and 29,784 full-
time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds 
appropriated in this Act or made available during fiscal year 2000 
under any other Act for the Immigration and Naturalization Service: 
Provided further, That not to exceed 39 permanent positions and 39 
full-time equivalent workyears and $4,284,000 shall be expended for the 
Offices of Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: Provided further, 
That the latter two aforementioned offices shall be augmented by 
personnel details, temporary transfers of personnel on either a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, or any other type of formal or 
informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or funds on either a 
temporary or long-term basis and such augmentation may not exceed 4 
full-time equivalent workyears: Provided further, That the number of 
positions filled through non-career appointment at the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service, for which funding is provided in this Act or is 
otherwise made available to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
shall not exceed 4 permanent positions and 4 full-time equivalent 
workyears.

                    violent crime reduction programs

    In addition, $873,000,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For planning, construction, renovation, equipping, and maintenance 
of buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and 
alien registration, not otherwise provided for, $138,964,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions, including 
purchase (not to exceed 708, of which 602 are for replacement only) and 
hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for the 
provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments, $3,156,895,000: Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources and Services 
Administration such amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures 
by that Administration for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal 
and correctional institutions: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Federal Prison System (FPS), where necessary, may enter into 
contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor to 
determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the FPS, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
FPS: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $50,000,000 for the activation of new facilities shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That, of 
the amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other 
expenses authorized by section 501(c) of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, as amended, for the care and security in the 
United States of Cuban and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 4(d) of the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 
U.S.C. 353(d)), FPS may enter into contracts and other agreements with 
private entities for periods of not to exceed 3 years and 7 additional 
option years for the confinement of Federal prisoners.
    In addition, $46,599,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; leasing the Oklahoma City Airport Trust Facility; purchase 
and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and equipping of such 
facilities for penal and correctional use, including all necessary 
expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; and 
constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$549,791,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $14,074,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate 
work programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be 
used for work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, 
That not to exceed 10 percent of the funds appropriated to ``Buildings 
and Facilities'' in this Act or any other Act may be transferred to 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Federal Prison System, upon notification by 
the Attorney General to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate in compliance with provisions set 
forth in section 605 of this Act.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation, including purchase of (not to 
exceed five for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $3,429,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which the said accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired 
or produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other 
property belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, and the Missing Children's Assistance Act, as 
amended, including salaries and expenses in connection therewith, and 
with the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, $168,592,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title 
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended 
by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), and $204,500,000 for 
counterterrorism programs, including $40,000,000 as authorized by 
Section 821 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 
1996, respectively: Provided further, That none of these funds made 
available under this heading shall be provided to any State that has 
failed to establish a comprehensive counterterrorism plan which has 
been approved by the National Domestic Preparedness Office.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended, for State and Local Narcotics Control 
and Justice Assistance Improvements, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 511 of said Act, $452,100,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title I of said Act, as 
amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which $52,100,000 
shall be available to carry out the provisions of chapter A of subpart 
2 of part E of title I of said Act, for discretionary grants under the 
Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance 
Programs.

   violent crime reduction programs, state and local law enforcement 
                               assistance

    For assistance (including amounts for administrative costs for 
management and administration, which amounts shall be transferred to 
and merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account) authorized by the 
Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-
322), as amended (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended (``the 1968 Act''); and the Victims of 
Child Abuse Act of 1990, as amended (``the 1990 Act''), $1,547,450,000, 
to remain available until expended, which shall be derived from the 
Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund; of which $400,000,000 shall be for 
Local Law Enforcement Block Grants, pursuant to H.R. 728 as passed by 
the House of Representatives on February 14, 1995, except that for 
purposes of this Act, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall be 
considered a ``unit of local government'' as well as a ``State'', for 
the purposes set forth in paragraphs (A), (B), (D), (F), and (I) of 
section 101(a)(2) of H.R. 728 and for establishing crime prevention 
programs involving cooperation between community residents and law 
enforcement personnel in order to control, detect, or investigate crime 
or the prosecution of criminals: Provided, That no funds provided under 
this heading may be used as matching funds for any other Federal grant 
program: Provided further, That $50,000,000 of this amount shall be for 
Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing facilities and other areas in 
cooperation with State and local law enforcement: Provided further, 
That funds may also be used to defray the costs of indemnification 
insurance for law enforcement officers: Provided further, That 
$20,000,000 shall be available to carry out section 102(2) of H.R. 728: 
Provided further, That $30,000,000 shall be available for the Police 
Corps training program, as authorized by sections 200101-200113 of the 
1994 Act; of which $350,000,000 shall be available for the Crime 
Identification Technology Initiative, of which $40,000,000 is for 
grants to upgrade criminal records, as authorized by section 106(b) of 
the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, as amended, and 
section 4(b) of the National Child Protection Act of 1993, of which 
$15,000,000 is for the National Institute of Justice to develop school 
safety technologies, of which $12,000,000 is available for the Office 
of Justice Program's Global Criminal Justice Information Network for 
work with states and local jurisdictions; of which $100,000,000 shall 
be for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, as authorized by 
section 242(j) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; of 
which $75,000,000 shall be for Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth 
in Sentencing Incentive Grants pursuant to subtitle A of title II of 
the 1994 Act, of which $41,000,000 shall be available for the 
Cooperative Agreement Program, and of which $34,000,000 shall be 
reserved by the Attorney General for fiscal year 2000 under section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the 1994 Act; of which 
$10,000,000 shall be for the Court Appointed Special Advocate Program, 
as authorized by section 218 of the 1990 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall 
be for Child Abuse Training Programs for Judicial Personnel and 
Practitioners, as authorized by section 224 of the 1990 Act; of which 
$206,750,000 shall be for Grants to Combat Violence Against Women, to 
States, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments, as 
authorized by section 1001(a)(18) of the 1968 Act, including 
$23,000,000 which shall be used exclusively for the purpose of 
strengthening civil legal assistance programs for victims of domestic 
violence, and $10,000,000 which shall be used exclusively for violence 
on college campuses: Provided further, That, of these funds, $5,200,000 
shall be provided to the National Institute of Justice for research and 
evaluation of violence against women, and $10,000,000 shall be 
available to the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention 
for the Safe Start Program, to be administered as authorized by part C 
of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Act of 1974, as amended; of 
which $34,000,000 shall be for Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies to 
States, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments, as 
authorized by section 1001(a)(19) of the 1968 Act; of which $25,000,000 
shall be for Rural Domestic Violence and Child Abuse Enforcement 
Assistance Grants, as authorized by section 40295 of the 1994 Act; of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for training programs to assist probation and 
parole officers who work with released sex offenders, as authorized by 
section 40152(c) of the 1994 Act, and for local demonstration projects; 
of which $1,000,000 shall be for grants for televised testimony, as 
authorized by section 1001(a)(7) of the 1968 Act; of which $5,000,000 
shall be for the Tribal Courts Initiative; of which $63,000,000 shall 
be for grants for residential substance abuse treatment for State 
prisoners, as authorized by section 1001(a)(17) of the 1968 Act; of 
which $30,000,000 shall be for State and local forensic laboratories as 
authorized by section 1001(a)(22) of the 1968 Act, as well as for 
improvements to the State and local forensic laboratory general 
forensic science capabilities to reduce their DNA convicted offender 
database sample backlog; of which $900,000 shall be for the Missing 
Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, as authorized by section 
240001(c) of the 1994 Act; of which $1,300,000 shall be for Motor 
Vehicle Theft Prevention Programs, as authorized by section 220002(h) 
of the 1994 Act; of which $40,000,000 shall be for Drug Courts, as 
authorized by title V of the 1994 Act; of which $1,500,000 shall be for 
Law Enforcement Family Support Programs, as authorized by section 
1001(a)(21) of the 1968 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall be for public 
awareness programs addressing marketing scams aimed at senior citizens, 
as authorized by section 250005(3) of the 1994 Act; and of which 
$100,000,000 shall be for Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block 
Grants, except that such funds shall be subject to the same terms and 
conditions as set forth in the provisions under this heading for this 
program in Public Law 105-119, but all references in such provisions to 
1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to 1999; of which $12,000,000 
shall be available for the Office of Justice Programs' Global 
Information Integration Initiative; of which $45,000,000 shall be 
available for the Indian Country Initiative; of which $25,000,000 shall 
be available for the Bulletproof Vest Program; of which $25,000,000 
shall be available for the Methamphetamine Program: Provided further, 
That funds made available in fiscal year 2000 under subpart 1 of part E 
of title I of the 1968 Act may be obligated for programs to assist 
States in the litigation processing of death penalty Federal habeas 
corpus petitions and for drug testing initiatives: Provided further, 
That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds made 
available under this title to increase the number of law enforcement 
officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net gain in the 
number of law enforcement officers who perform nonadministrative public 
safety service.

                       weed and seed program fund

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $40,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
intergovernmental agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, 
and contracts, with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in 
the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes and drug offenses 
in ``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for either 
reimbursements or transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department 
of Justice and other Federal agencies which shall be specified by the 
Attorney General to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program strategy: 
Provided, That funds designated by Congress through language for other 
Department of Justice appropriation accounts for ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities shall be managed and executed by the Attorney 
General through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed: Provided 
further, That the Attorney General may direct the use of other 
Department of Justice funds and personnel in support of ``Weed and 
Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney General notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.

                       juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974, as amended, (``the Act''), including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance, $277,597,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by section 299 of part I of 
title II and section 506 of title V of the Act, as amended by Public 
Law 102-586, of which (1) notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$6,847,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part A of 
title II of the Act, $89,000,000 shall be available for expenses 
authorized by part B of title II of the Act, and $49,750,000 shall be 
available for expenses authorized by part C of title II of the Act: 
Provided, That $26,500,000 of the amounts provided for part B of title 
II of the Act, as amended, is for the purpose of providing additional 
formula grants under part B to States that provide assurances to the 
Administrator that the State has in effect (or will have in effect no 
later than one year after date of application) policies and programs, 
that ensure that juveniles are subject to accountability-based 
sanctions for every act for which they are adjudicated delinquent; (2) 
$12,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by sections 281 
and 282 of part D of title II of the Act for prevention and treatment 
programs relating to juvenile gangs; (3) $10,000,000 shall be available 
for expenses authorized by section 285 of part E of title II of the 
Act; (4) $15,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part 
G of title II of the Act for juvenile mentoring programs; (5) 
$95,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by title V of 
the Act for incentive grants for local delinquency prevention programs; 
of which $20,000,000 shall be for delinquency prevention, control, and 
system improvement programs for tribal youth; of which $25,000,000 
shall be available for grants of $360,000 to each state and $6,640,000 
shall be available for discretionary grants to states, for programs and 
activities to enforce state laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic 
beverages to minors or the purchase or consumption of alcoholic 
beverages by minors, prevention and reduction of consumption of 
alcoholic beverages by minors, and for technical assistance and 
training: Provided further, That upon the enactment of reauthorization 
legislation for Juvenile Justice Programs under the Juvenile Justice 
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, funding provisions 
in this Act shall from that date be subject to the provisions of that 
legislation and any provisions in this Act that are inconsistent with 
that legislation shall no longer have effect: Provided further, That of 
amounts made available under the Juvenile Justice Programs of the 
Office of Justice Programs to carry out part B (relating to Federal 
Assistance for State and Local Programs), subpart II of part C 
(relating to Special Emphasis Prevention and Treatment Programs), part 
D (relating to Gang-Free Schools and Communities and Community-Based 
Gang Intervention), part E (relating to State Challenge Activities), 
and part G (relating to Mentoring) of title II of the Juvenile Justice 
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, and to carry out the At-Risk 
Children's Program under title V of that Act, not more than 10 percent 
of each such amount may be used for research, evaluation, and 
statistics activities designed to benefit the programs or activities 
authorized under the appropriate part or title, and not more than 2 
percent of each such amount may be used for training and technical 
assistance activities designed to benefit the programs or activities 
authorized under that part or title.
    In addition, $218,000,000 shall be available for the Safe Schools 
Initiative.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, 
as amended, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 214B of the Act.

                    public safety officers benefits

    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized by part 
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such sums as are necessary, as authorized 
by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340) and, in 
addition, $3,500,000, to remain available until expended, for programs 
authorized by section 1201(h) of said Act.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses in accordance with 
distributions, procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney 
General.
    Sec. 102. Section 110 of division C of Public Law 104-208 is 
repealed.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case 
of rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 105. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 104 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 106. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
establish and publicize a program under which publicly advertised, 
extraordinary rewards may be paid, which shall not be subject to 
spending limitations contained in sections 3059 and 3072 of title 18, 
United States Code: Provided, That any reward of $100,000 or more, up 
to a maximum of $2,000,000, may not be made without the personal 
approval of the President or the Attorney General and such approval may 
not be delegated.
    Sec. 107. Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act, including those derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 2000 and thereafter, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office 
of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice--
            (1) may make grants, or enter into cooperative agreements 
        and contracts, for the Office of Justice Programs and the 
        component organizations of that Office; and
            (2) shall have final authority over all grants, cooperative 
        agreements, and contracts made, or entered into, for the Office 
        of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that 
        Office.
    Sec. 109. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 2000, the Attorney General may obligate any funds 
appropriated for or reimbursed to the Counterterrorism programs, 
projects or activities of the Department of Justice to purchase or 
lease equipment or any related items, or to acquire interim services, 
without regard to any otherwise applicable Federal acquisition rule, if 
the Attorney General determines that--
            (A) there is an exigent need for the equipment, related 
        items, or services in order to support an ongoing 
        counterterrorism, national security, or computer-crime 
        investigation or prosecution;
            (B) the equipment, related items, or services required are 
        not available within the Department of Justice; and
            (C) adherence to that Federal acquisition rule would--
                    (i) delay the timely acquisition of the equipment, 
                related items, or services; and
                    (ii) adversely affect an ongoing counterterrorism, 
                national security, or computer-crime investigation or 
                prosecution.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``Federal acquisition rule'' means 
any provision of title II or IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act, the Small Business Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
or any other provision of law or regulation that establishes policies, 
procedures, requirements, conditions, or restrictions for procurements 
by the head of a department or agency or the Federal Government.
    (b) The Attorney General shall immediately notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
writing of each expenditure under subsection (a), which notification 
shall include sufficient information to explain the circumstances 
necessitating the exercise of the authority under that subsection.
    Sec. 110. Notwithstanding any other provision of law for fiscal 
year 2000 and thereafter, in any action brought by a prisoner under 
section 1979 of the Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1983) against a 
Federal, State, or local jail, prison, or correctional facility, or any 
employee or former employee thereof, arising out of the incarceration 
of that prisoner--
            (1) the financial records of a person employed or formerly 
        employed by the Federal, State, or local jail, prison, or 
        correctional facility, shall not be subject to disclosure 
        without the written consent of that person or pursuant to a 
        court order, unless a verdict of liability has been entered 
        against that person; and
            (2) the home address, home phone number, social security 
        number, identity of family members, personal tax returns, and 
        personal banking information of a person described in paragraph 
        (1), and any other records or information of a similar nature 
        relating to that person, shall not be subject to disclosure 
        without the written consent of that person, or pursuant to a 
        court order.
    Sec. 111. Hereafter, for payments of judgments against the United 
States and compromise settlements of claims in suits against the United 
States arising from the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and 
Enforcement Act and its implementation, such sums as may be necessary, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the foregoing 
authority is available solely for payment of judgments and compromise 
settlements: Provided further, That payment of litigation expenses is 
available under existing authority and will continue to be made 
available as set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding between the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Department of Justice, 
dated October 2, 1998, and may not be paid from amounts provided in 
this Act.
    Sec. 112. Section 2(c) of the Public Law 104-232, as amended, is 
further amended by replacing ``five'' with ``three''.
    Sec. 113. Section 4006 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Attorney General'' and inserting the 
        following: ``(a) In General.--The Attorney General''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Health Care Items and Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--Payment for costs incurred for the 
        provision of health care items and services for individuals in 
        the custody of the United States Marshals Service shall not 
        exceed the lesser of the amount that would be paid for the 
        provision of similar health care items and services under--
                    ``(A) the medicare program under title XVIII of the 
                Social Security Act; or
                    ``(B) the medicaid program under title XIX of such 
                Act of the State in which the services were provided.
            ``(2) Full and final payment.--Any payment for a health 
        care item or service made pursuant to this subsection, shall be 
        deemed to be full and final payment.''.
    Sec. 114. (a) The Attorney General shall establish by plain rule 
that it shall be punishable conduct for any Department of Justice 
employee, in the discharge of his or her official duties, intentionally 
to--
            (1) seek the indictment of any person in the absence of a 
        reasonable belief of probable cause, as prohibited by the 
        Principles of Federal Prosecution, U.S. Attorneys' Manual 9-
        27.200 et seq.;
            (2) fail to disclose exculpatory evidence to the defense, 
        in violation of his or her obligations under Brady v. Maryland, 
        373 U.S. 83 (1963);
            (3) mislead a court as to the guilt of any person by 
        knowingly making a false statement of material fact or law;
            (4) offer evidence lawyers know to be false;
            (5) alter evidence in violation of 18 U.S.C. 15[03/12];
            (6) attempt to corruptly influence or color a witness' 
        testimony with the intent to encourage untruthful testimony, in 
        violation of 18 U.S.C. 1503 and 1512;
            (7) violate a defendant's right to discovery under Federal 
        Rule of Criminal Procedure 16(a);
            (8) offer or provide sexual activities to any government 
        witness or potential witness as in exchange for or on account 
        of his or her testimony;
            (9) improperly disseminate confidential, non-public 
        information to any person during an investigation or trial, in 
        violation of 28 C.F.R. 50.2, Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 
        6(e); 18 U.S.C. 2511(1)(c), 18 U.S.C. 2232 (b) and (c), 26 
        U.S.C. 6103, or United States Attorneys' Manual 1-7.000 et seq.
    (b) The Attorney General shall establish a range of penalties for 
engaging in conduct described above that shall include--
            (1) reprimand;
            (2) demotion;
            (3) dismissal;
            (4) referral of ethical charges to the bar;
            (5) suspension from employment; and
            (6) referral of the allegations, if appropriate, to a grand 
        jury for possible criminal prosecution.
    (c) Subsection (a) is not intended to and does not create 
substantive rights on behalf of criminal defendants, civil litigants, 
targets or subjects of investigation, witnesses, counsel for 
represented parties or represented parties, or any other person, and 
shall not be a basis for dismissing criminal or civil charges or 
proceedings against any person or for excluding relevant evidence in 
any proceeding in any court of the United States.
    Sec. 115. (a) Hereafter, none of the funds made available by this 
or any other Act may be used to pay premium pay under title 5, United 
States Code, sections 5542 to 5549, to any individual employed as an 
attorney, including an Assistant United States Attorney, in the U.S. 
Department of Justice for any work performed on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Hereafter, notwithstanding any other provision of law, neither 
the United States nor any individual or entity acting on its behalf 
shall be liable for premium pay under title 5, United States Code, 
sections 5542 to 5549, for any work performed on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act by any individual employed as an attorney in the 
Department of Justice, including an Assistant United States Attorney.
    Sec. 116. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
total of the amounts appropriated under this title of this Act is 
reduced by $2,468,000, out of which the reductions for each account 
shall be made in accordance with the chart on fiscal year 2000 general 
pricing level adjustment dated May 4, 1999, provided to Congress by the 
Department of Justice.
    Sec. 117. Section 113 of the Department of Justice Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (section 101(b) of division A of Public Law 105-277), as 
amended by section 3028 of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 106-31), is further amended by striking the first 
comma and inserting ``for fiscal year 2000 and hereafter,''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$26,067,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $45,700,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical 
coverage for dependent members of immediate families of employees 
stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel 
and transportation of employees of the United States and Foreign 
Commercial Service between two points abroad, without regard to 49 
U.S.C. 1517; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign 
countries; not to exceed $327,000 for official representation expenses 
abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, 
not to exceed $30,000 per vehicle; obtain insurance on official motor 
vehicles; and rent tie lines and teletype equipment, $290,696,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $3,000,000 is to be derived 
from fees to be retained and used by the International Trade 
Administration, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided, That of the 
$311,344,000 provided for in direct obligations (of which $308,344,000 
is appropriated from the General Fund, $3,000,000 is derived from fee 
collections, $68,729,000 shall be for Trade Development, $22,549,000 
shall be for Market Access and Compliance, $31,420,000 shall be for the 
Import Administration, $169,398,000 shall be for the United States and 
Foreign Commercial Service, $14,449,000 shall be for Executive 
Direction and Administration, and $4,799,000 shall be for carryover 
restoration: Provided further, That the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities without regard to 
section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 
U.S.C. 4912); and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act 
shall include payment for assessments for services provided as part of 
these activities.

                         Export Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services 
abroad; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and 
expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; payment of tort claims, 
in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $15,000 for 
official representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to 
informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with 
special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to 
any price limitation otherwise established by law, $55,931,000 to 
remain available until expended, of which $1,877,000 shall be for 
inspections and other activities related to national security: 
Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) 
and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in 
carrying out these activities: Provided further, That payments and 
contributions collected and accepted for materials or services provided 
as part of such activities may be retained for use in covering the cost 
of such activities, and for providing information to the public with 
respect to the export administration and national security activities 
of the Department of Commerce and other export control programs of the 
United States and other governments: Provided further, That no funds 
may be obligated or expended for processing licenses for the export of 
satellites of United States origin (including commercial satellites and 
satellite components) to the People's Republic of China, unless, at 
least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and the Senate and other appropriate Committees of the Congress are 
notified of such proposed action.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, and for 
trade adjustment assistance, $203,379,000.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $24,937,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title 
I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency Drought 
Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $27,627,000.

                Economic and Information Infrastructure

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$51,158,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                          Bureau of the Census

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, 
$156,944,000.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For expenses necessary to conduct the decennial census, 
$2,789,545,000 to remain available until expended.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $125,209,000, 
to remain available until expended.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $11,009,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies 
for costs incurred in spectrum management, analysis, and operations, 
and related services and such fees shall be retained and used as 
offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That hereafter, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, NTIA shall not authorize 
spectrum use or provide any spectrum functions pursuant to the NTIA 
Organization Act, 47 U.S.C. 902-903, to any Federal entity without 
reimbursement as required by NTIA for such spectrum management costs, 
and Federal entities withholding payment of such cost shall not use 
spectrum: Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce is 
authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections all funds 
transferred, or previously transferred, from other Government agencies 
for all costs incurred in telecommunications research, engineering, and 
related activities by the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of 
the NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions under this 
paragraph, and such funds received from other Government agencies shall 
remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For grants authorized by sections 391 and 392 of the Communications 
Act of 1934, as amended, $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $1,800,000 shall be available for program 
administration as authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of the Act, 
the prior year unobligated balances may be made available for grants 
for projects for which applications have been submitted and approved 
during any fiscal year: Provided further, That, hereafter, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Pan-Pacific Education 
and Communication Experiments by Satellite (PEACESAT) Program is 
eligible to compete for Public Telecommunications Facilities, Planning 
and Construction funds.

                   information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $18,102,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided, That not to exceed 
$3,000,000 shall be available for program administration and other 
support activities as authorized by section 391: Provided further, 
That, of the funds appropriated herein, not to exceed 5 percent may be 
available for telecommunications research activities for projects 
related directly to the development of a national information 
infrastructure: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the 
requirements of section 392(a) and 392(c) of the Act, these funds may 
be used for the planning and construction of telecommunications 
networks for the provision of educational, cultural, health care, 
public information, public safety, or other social services: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, no entity 
that receives telecommunications services at preferential rates under 
section 254(h) of the Act (47 U.S.C. 254(h)) or receives assistance 
under the regional information sharing systems grant program of the 
Department of Justice under part M of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796h) may use funds 
under a grant under this heading to cover any costs of the entity that 
would otherwise be covered by such preferential rates or such 
assistance, as the case may be.

                      Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Patent and Trademark Office provided 
for by law, including defense of suits instituted against the 
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, $785,976,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of this amount, $785,976,000 
shall be derived from offsetting collections assessed and collected 
pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376, and shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General 
Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are received 
during fiscal year 2000, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2000 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $0: Provided further, 
That, during fiscal year 2000, should the total amount of offsetting 
fee collections be less than $785,976,000, the total amounts available 
to the Patent and Trademark Office shall be reduced accordingly: 
Provided further, That any amount received in excess of $785,976,000 in 
fiscal year 2000 shall remain available until expended, but shall not 
be available for obligation until October 1, 2000.

                         Science and Technology

                       Technology Administration

       under secretary for technology/office of technology policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology/
Office of Technology Policy, $7,972,000, of which not to exceed 
$600,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2001.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $288,128,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $282,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund''.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership 
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, $109,836,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced Technology 
Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$226,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $73,000,000 shall be available for the award of new grants, and 
of which not to exceed $500,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund''.

                  construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation of existing 
facilities, not otherwise provided for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, 
$117,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $10,000,000 shall be used to fund a cooperative agreement with 
the University of South Carolina School of Medicine, and of which not 
to exceed $10,000,000 shall be used to fund a cooperative agreement 
with Dartmouth College.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft; grants, contracts, or other payments 
to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
pursuant to cooperative agreements; and relocation of facilities as 
authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; $1,776,728,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees and donations received by the National 
Ocean Service for the management of the national marine sanctuaries may 
be retained and used for the salaries and expenses associated with 
those activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, 
That in addition, $66,426,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
fund entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research 
Pertaining to American Fisheries'': Provided further, That grants to 
States pursuant to sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972, as amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Commerce shall make funds available to implement 
the mitigation recommendations identified subsequent to the ``1995 
Secretary's Report to Congress on Adequacy of NEXRAD Coverage and 
Degradation of Weather Services'', and shall ensure continuation of 
weather service coverage for these communities until mitigation 
activities are completed: Provided further, That no general 
administrative charge shall be applied against any assigned activity 
included in this Act and, further, that any direct administrative 
expenses applied against assigned activities shall be limited to five 
percent of the funds provided for that assigned activity: Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under this heading for the 
National Marine Fisheries Services Pacific Salmon Treaty Program, 
$5,000,000 is appropriated for a Southern Boundary and Transboundary 
Rivers Restoration Fund, subject to express authorization.

               procurement, acquisition and construction

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, $670,578,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That unexpended balances of amounts previously made 
available in the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' account for 
activities funded under this heading may be transferred to and merged 
with this account, to remain available until expended for the purposes 
for which the funds were originally appropriated.

                    pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations listed under the Endangered Species Act, 
$100,000,000: Provided, That, of the amounts provided, $20,000,000 each 
is made available as direct payments to the States of California, 
Oregon, Washington, and Alaska: Provided further, That $15,000,000 is 
made available to the State of Washington as a direct payment for 
implementation of the June 3, 1999 Agreement of the United States and 
Canada on the Treaty Between the Government of the United States of 
America and the Government of Canada Concerning Pacific Salmon, 1985 
(hereafter referred to as the ``Pacific Salmon Treaty'') extending the 
Treaty framework to include habitat protection objectives, subject to 
express authorization: Provided further, That $5,000,000 is made 
available as a direct payment to the State of Alaska for implementation 
of the June 3, 1999 Agreement of the United States and Canada on the 
Pacific Salmon Treaty extending the Treaty framework to include habitat 
protection objectives for fisheries enhancement measures, subject to 
express authorization.

                      coastal zone management fund

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed $4,000,000, for 
purposes set forth in sections 308(b)(2)(A), 308(b)(2)(B)(v), and 
315(e) of such Act.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $953,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                     foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as 
amended (Public Law 100-627), and the American Fisheries Promotion Act 
(Public Law 96-561), to be derived from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to 
exceed $189,000, to remain available until expended.

                   fisheries finance program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,038,000, as authorized by the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be used 
for direct loans for any new fishing vessel that will increase the 
harvesting capacity in any United States fishery.

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official entertainment, $34,046,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), $17,900,000.

                       fisheries promotional fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$1,187,000 are rescinded.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act 
shall be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 
26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed 
by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for 
advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such payments 
are in the public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that 
are under the control of the United States Air Force or the United 
States Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds provided in this or any previous Act, 
or hereinafter made available to the Department of Commerce, shall be 
available to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other fund or 
account of the Treasury to pay for any expenses paid before October 1, 
1992, as authorized by section 8501 of title 5, United States Code, for 
services performed after April 20, 1990, by individuals appointed to 
temporary positions within the Bureau of the Census for purposes 
relating to the 1990 decennial census of population.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. Any costs incurred by a Department or agency funded under 
this title resulting from personnel actions taken in response to 
funding reductions included in this title or from actions taken for the 
care and protection of loan collateral or grant property shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
Department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 207. The Secretary of Commerce may award contracts for 
hydrographic, geodetic, and photogrammetric surveying and mapping 
services in accordance with title IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 541 et seq.).
    Sec. 208. The Secretary of Commerce may use the Commerce franchise 
fund for expenses and equipment necessary for the maintenance and 
operation of such administrative services as the Secretary determines 
may be performed more advantageously as central services, pursuant to 
section 403 of Public Law 103-356: Provided, That any inventories, 
equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to be provided 
by such fund, either on hand or on order, less the related liabilities 
or unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made for the purpose of 
providing capital shall be used to capitalize such fund: Provided 
further, That such fund shall be paid in advance from funds available 
to the Department and other Federal agencies for which such centralized 
services are performed, at rates which will return in full all expenses 
of operation, including accrued leave, depreciation of fund plant and 
equipment, amortization of automated data processing (ADP) software and 
systems (either acquired or donated), and an amount necessary to 
maintain a reasonable operating reserve, as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That such fund shall provide services on a 
competitive basis: Provided further, That an amount not to exceed 4 
percent of the total annual income to such fund may be retained in the 
fund for fiscal year 2000 and each fiscal year thereafter, to remain 
available until expended, to be used for the acquisition of capital 
equipment, and for the improvement and implementation of Department 
financial management, ADP, and other support systems: Provided further, 
That such amounts retained in the fund for fiscal year 2000 and each 
fiscal year thereafter shall be available for obligation and 
expenditure only in accordance with section 605 of this Act: Provided 
further, That no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, 
amounts in excess of this reserve limitation shall be deposited as 
miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury: Provided further, That such 
franchise fund pilot program shall terminate pursuant to section 403(f) 
of Public Law 103-356.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                        TITLE III--THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance, and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles 
as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve, $34,759,000.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the Act 
approved May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $18,123,000, of which 
$15,222,000 shall remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $16,911,000.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and 8 judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$11,957,000.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges 
of the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the 
United States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate 
judges, and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary 
not otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $2,892,265,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $19,150,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects; and of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.
    In addition, $100,000,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,581,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act; the compensation (in accordance with Criminal 
Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem acting on behalf of financially 
eligible minor or incompetent offenders in connection with transfers 
from the United States to foreign countries with which the United 
States has a treaty for the execution of penal sentences; and the 
compensation of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil 
actions for the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 
U.S.C. 1875(d), $353,888,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i).

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)), $60,918,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

                             Court Security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment and 
protective services for the United States Courts in courtrooms and 
adjacent areas, including building ingress-egress control, inspection 
of packages, directed security patrols, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access to 
Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $196,026,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended, to be expended 
directly or transferred to the United States Marshals Service, which 
shall be responsible for administering the Judicial Facility Security 
Program consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the 
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts and 
the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $56,054,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 is authorized 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $18,476,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2001, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                       Judicial Retirement Funds

                    payment to judiciary trust funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $29,500,000; to the Judicial Survivors' 
Annuities Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), $8,000,000; and to 
the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), $2,200,000.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $4,743,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                   General Provisions--The Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 303. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States: Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $12,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304. Pursuant to section 140 of Public Law 97-92, Justices and 
judges of the United States are authorized during fiscal year 2000, to 
receive a salary adjustment in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 461.
    Sec. 305. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition 
to funds appropriated elsewhere in this title, $2,700,000 is 
appropriated to the ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other 
Judicial Services'' and is provided for the Institute at Saint Anselm 
College and the New Hampshire State Library.
    This title may be cited as ``The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2000''.

           TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including expenses authorized by 
the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended, the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, and 
the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as 
amended, including employment, without regard to civil service and 
classification laws, of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed 
$700,000 of this appropriation), as authorized by section 801 of such 
Act of 1948; expenses authorized by section 9 of the Act of August 31, 
1964, as amended; representation to certain international organizations 
in which the United States participates pursuant to treaties, ratified 
pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate, or specific Acts of 
Congress; arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament activities as 
authorized by the Arms Control and Disarmament Act of September 26, 
1961, as amended; acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by law; and for expenses of general 
administration, $2,671,429,000: Provided, That, of the amount made 
available under this heading, not to exceed $4,000,000 may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds in the ``Emergencies in the 
Diplomatic and Consular Service'' appropriations account, to be 
available only for emergency evacuations and terrorism rewards: 
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$299,480,000 shall be available only for worldwide security upgrades: 
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$500,000 shall be available only for the National Law Center for Inter-
American Free Trade: Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be available only for 
overseas continuing language education: Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, $13,500,000 shall be 
available only for the East-West Center: Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be available 
only for overseas representation expenses: Provided further, That of 
the amount made available under this heading, not to exceed $125,000 
shall be available only for the Maui Pacific Center: Provided further, 
That no employee of the Department of State shall be detailed to 
another agency, organization, or institution on a reimbursable or non-
reimbursable basis for a total of more than 2 years during any 5-year 
period: Provided further, That not later than 3 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, each employee of the Department of State who 
has served on detail to another agency, organization, or institution 
for a total of more than 2 years during the 5-year period preceding the 
date of enactment of this Act shall terminate the detail: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 140(a)(5), and the second 
sentence of section 140(a)(3), of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, fees may be collected during fiscal 
year 2000 and each fiscal year thereafter, under the authority of 
section 140(a)(1) of that Act: Provided further, That all fees 
collected under the preceding proviso shall be deposited as an 
offsetting collection to appropriations made under this heading to 
recover costs as set forth under section 140(a)(2) of that Act and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading for the Bureau of Oceans and 
International Environment and Scientific Affairs, $5,000,000 is 
appropriated for a Northern Boundary and Transboundary Rivers 
Restoration Fund, subject to express authorization.
    In addition, not to exceed $1,252,000 shall be derived from fees 
collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities 
located at the International Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
International Center Act, as amended; in addition, as authorized by 
section 5 of such Act, $490,000, to be derived from the reserve 
authorized by that section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
section; in addition, not to exceed $6,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, may be credited to this appropriation from fees or 
other payments received from or in connection with English teaching, 
library, motion pictures, and publication programs, and from fees from 
educational advising and counseling, and exchange visitor program 
services as authorized by section 810 of such Act of 1948; and, in 
addition, not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived from 
reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House facilities 
in accordance with section 46 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $80,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized in Public Law 103-
236: Provided, That section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 shall not 
apply to funds available under this heading.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $26,495,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) 
of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (Public Law 96-465), as 
it relates to post inspections.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized by the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, 
as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977 (91 Stat. 1636), as amended, $216,476,000, to remain available 
until expended as authorized by section 105 of such Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455): Provided, That not to exceed $800,000, to remain 
available until expended, may be credited to this appropriation from 
fees or other payments received from or in connection with English 
teaching and publication programs as authorized by section 810 of the 
United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 
U.S.C. 1475e) and, notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees 
from educational advising and counseling.

                       representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized by section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4085), $5,850,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services in accordance 
with the provisions of section 214 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4314) and 3 U.S.C. 208, $8,100,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2000.

           security and maintenance of united states missions

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for, buildings that are owned or 
directly leased by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to 
funds otherwise available, the Main State Building, and carrying out 
the Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized by title IV 
of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 
U.S.C. 4851), $583,496,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)): Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of 
furniture and furnishings and generators for other departments and 
agencies.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service 
pursuant to the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3526(e), and as authorized by 
section 804(3) of the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, $7,000,000 to remain available until 
expended as authorized by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)), of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the Repatriation Loans 
Program Account, subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $593,000, as authorized by section 4 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2671): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out 
the direct loan program, $607,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the Salaries and Expenses account under Administration of 
Foreign Affairs.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, 
Public Law 96-8, $16,000,000.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $128,541,000.

              International Organizations and Conferences

              contributions to international organizations

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties, ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of 
the Senate, or specific Acts of Congress, $943,308,000, of which not to 
exceed $107,000,000 shall remain available until expended for payment 
of arrearages: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act for payment of arrearages may be 
obligated or expended unless such obligation or expenditure is 
expressly authorized by the enactment of a separate Act that makes 
payment of arrearages contingent upon United Nations reforms: Provided 
further, That any payment of arrearages shall be directed toward 
special activities that are mutually agreed upon by the United States 
and the respective international organization.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $280,925,000, of which 
not to exceed $28,093,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2001, and of which not to exceed $137,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for payment of arrearages: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for payment 
of arrearages may be obligated or expended unless such obligation or 
expenditure is expressly authorized by the enactment of a separate Act 
that makes payment of arrearages contingent upon United Nations 
reforms: Provided further, That the funds provided under this heading 
(other than funds provided to pay arrearages) shall be disbursed in the 
manner described in the following table:

                Mission                                          Amount
UN Disengagement Observer Force......................        $8,900,000
UN Interim Force in Lebanon..........................        34,000,000
UN Iraq/Kuwait Observer Mission......................         4,500,000
UN Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina/UN Mission of           50,000,000
Observers in Prevlaka.
UN Force in Cyprus...................................         6,500,000
UN Observer Mission in Georgia.......................         5,500,000
UN Mission of Observers to Tajikistan................         7,000,000
UN Observer Mission in Sierra Leone..................         8,500,000
War Crimes Tribunal--Yugoslavia and Rwanda...........        15,525,000
UN Observer Mission to East Timor....................         3,500,000

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $19,551,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $5,939,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2696(c)).

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by Public Law 103-182, 
$5,733,000, of which not to exceed $9,000 shall be available for 
representation expenses incurred by the International Joint Commission.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $15,549,000: Provided, 
That the United States' share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                 OTHER

           Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in 
accordance with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative 
Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations), 
including the restrictions on compensation for personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
fiscal years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 2000, to remain available until expended.

                            East-West Center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960 (22 U.S.C. 2054-2057), by grant to the Center 
for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between East and West in the 
State of Hawaii, $12,500,000: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be used to pay any salary, or enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For expenses necessary to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, as authorized by the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994, as amended, and Reorganization 
Plan No. 2 of 1977, as amended, and the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998, to carry out international communication 
activities, $362,365,000, of which not to exceed $16,000 may be used 
for official receptions within the United States as authorized by 
section 804(3) of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1747(3)), not to exceed 
$35,000 may be used for representation abroad as authorized by section 
302 of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1452) and section 905 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), and not to exceed $39,000 may be 
used for official reception and representation expenses of Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty; and in addition, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $2,000,000 in receipts from advertising 
and revenue from business ventures, not to exceed $500,000 in receipts 
from cooperating international organizations, and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 in receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of 
America and the International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available 
until expended for carrying out authorized purposes.

                          broadcasting to cuba

    For expenses necessary to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors to carry out the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, as amended, 
the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and the International 
Broadcasting Act of 1994, and the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998, including the purchase, rent, construction, 
and improvement of facilities for radio and television transmission and 
reception, and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for 
radio and television transmission and reception, $23,664,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds may be used to purchase 
or lease, maintain, and operate such aircraft (including aerostats) as 
may be required to house and operate necessary television broadcasting 
equipment.

                           radio construction

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of facilities 
for radio transmission and reception, and purchase and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio and television transmission and reception 
as authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1471), $13,245,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 704(a) of 
such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1477b(a)).

      General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agencies

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States Code; for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and hire of passenger 
transportation pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of Governors in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. The Secretary of State is authorized to administer summer 
travel and work programs without regard to preplacement requirements.
    Sec. 404. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Department of State or the Broadcasting Board of Governors to 
provide equipment, technical support, consulting services, or any other 
form of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 2000 or any 
fiscal year thereafter may be obligated or expended for the operation 
of a United States consulate or diplomatic facility in Jerusalem unless 
such consulate or diplomatic facility is under the supervision of the 
United States Ambassador to Israel.
    Sec. 406. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 2000 or any 
fiscal year thereafter may be obligated or expended for the publication 
of any official Government document which lists countries and their 
capital cities unless the publication identifies Jerusalem as the 
capital of Israel.
    Sec. 407. For the purposes of registration of birth, certification 
of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen 
born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary of State shall, upon 
request of the citizen, record the place of birth as Israel.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000''.

                       TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $98,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $72,664,000.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act, 1936, $11,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,000,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, not to exceed $3,893,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for Operations and 
Training.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefore shall be credited to 
the appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year 
from the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 
1936, or otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations 
contained in this Act or in any prior appropriation Act, and all 
receipts which otherwise would be deposited to the credit of said fund 
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

                        Census Monitoring Board

    For necessary expenses of the Census Monitoring Board, as 
authorized by section 210 of Public Law 105-119, $4,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $490,000, as authorized by section 1303 of Public Law 
99-83.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $8,900,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to 
employ in excess of 4 full-time individuals under Schedule C of the 
Excepted Service exclusive of 1 special assistant for each 
Commissioner: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 
75 billable days, with the exception of the chairperson who is 
permitted 125 billable days.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation In Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,250,000, 
to remain available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public 
Law 99-7.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); non-monetary awards to 
private citizens; and not to exceed $29,000,000 for payments to State 
and local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant 
to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 
and 14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
$279,000,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-02; not to exceed $600,000 for land and 
structure; not to exceed $500,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception 
and representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed 16) and hire of 
motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $232,805,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001, for research and policy studies: 
Provided, That $185,754,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications 
Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
2000 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2000 appropriation 
estimated at $47,051,000: Provided further, That any offsetting 
collections received in excess of $185,754,000 in fiscal year 2000 
shall remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 2000.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal 
Communications Commission is authorized to operate, maintain, and 
repair its headquarters building, and may negotiate with the lessor or 
place orders for alterations or building services.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-02, $14,150,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $114,059,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$300,000 shall be available for use to contract with a person or 
persons for collection services in accordance with the terms of 31 
U.S.C. 3718, as amended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $114,059,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected for premerger notification 
filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General Fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2000, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2000 appropriation 
from the General Fund estimated at not more than $0, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission shall be available for 
obligation for expenses authorized by section 151 of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-
242, 105 Stat. 2282-2285).

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$300,000,000, of which $289,000,000 is for basic field programs and 
required independent audits; $2,100,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to 
conduct additional audits of recipients; and $8,900,000 is for 
management and administration: Provided further, That any unobligated 
balances remaining available at the end of the fiscal year may be 
reallocated among participating programs for technology enhancements 
and demonstration projects in succeeding fiscal years, subject to the 
reprogramming procedures described in section 605 of this Act.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, and 
504 of Public Law 105-119 (111 Stat. 2510), and all funds appropriated 
in this Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the 
same terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 of the law to 1997 and 1998 shall be 
deemed to refer instead to 1999 and 2000, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,300,000.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $0; and, in addition, to remain available 
until expended, from fees collected in fiscal year 1998, $130,800,000, 
and from fees collected in fiscal year 2000, $240,000,000; of which not 
to exceed $10,000 may be used toward funding a permanent secretariat 
for the International Organization of Securities Commissions; and of 
which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses for 
consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign 
governmental and other regulatory officials, members of their 
delegations, appropriate representatives and staff to exchange views 
concerning developments relating to securities matters, development and 
implementation of cooperation agreements concerning securities matters 
and provision of technical assistance for the development of foreign 
securities markets, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and 
foreign invitees in attendance at such consultations and meetings 
including: (1) such incidental expenses as meals taken in the course of 
such attendance; (2) any travel and transportation to or from such 
meetings; and (3) any other related lodging or subsistence: Provided, 
That fees and charges authorized by sections 6(b)(4) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)(4)) and 31(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee(d)) shall be credited to this account as 
offsetting collections.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 103-403, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $251,300,000: Provided, That the Administrator 
is authorized to charge fees to cover the cost of publications 
developed by the Small Business Administration, and certain loan 
servicing activities: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to 
this account, to be available for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriations: Provided further, That $87,000,000 shall be 
available to fund grants for performance in fiscal year 2000 or fiscal 
year 2001 as authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act, as 
amended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $13,250,000.

                     business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to be available until 
expended; and for the cost of guaranteed loans, $164,368,000, as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note, of which $45,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2000, commitments to 
guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act 
of 1958, as amended, shall not exceed the amount of financings 
authorized under section 20(d)(1)(B)(ii) of the Small Business Act, as 
amended: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2000, commitments 
for general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small 
Business Act, as amended, shall not exceed $10,500,000,000 without 
prior notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
     In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $129,000,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the 
Small Business Act, as amended, $77,700,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $86,000,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses, including $500,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for 
audits and reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan program, and 
said sums shall be transferred to and merged with appropriations for 
the Office of Inspector General.

        administrative provision--small business administration

    Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made available for 
the current fiscal year for the Small Business Administration in this 
Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 20 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-572 (106 Stat. 4515-4516)), $6,850,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2000, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) 
eliminates a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or 
personnel by any means for any project or activity for which funds have 
been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) 
reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or 
privatizes any functions, or activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds.
     (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 20 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments 
existing programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 20 percent 
funding for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of 
personnel by 20 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from 
any general savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in 
a change in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
Congress; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds.
    Sec. 606. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul, 
conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside of the United 
States.
    Sec. 607. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on 
religion, when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to 
which such funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ 
in any respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission 
on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 609. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 609 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) The requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 609 of 
that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 610. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than 
20 percent of the amount allocated to any account or subaccount from an 
appropriation made by this Act that is available for obligation only in 
the current fiscal year may be obligated during the last two months of 
the fiscal year.
    Sec. 611. None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used to provide the following amenities or personal comforts in the 
Federal prison system--
            (1) in-cell television viewing except for prisoners who are 
        segregated from the general prison population for their own 
        safety;
            (2) the viewing of R, X, and NC-17 rated movies, through 
        whatever medium presented;
            (3) any instruction (live or through broadcasts) or 
        training equipment for boxing, wrestling, judo, karate, or 
        other martial art, or any bodybuilding or weightlifting 
        equipment of any sort;
            (4) possession of in-cell coffee pots, hot plates or 
        heating elements; or
            (5) the use or possession of any electric or electronic 
        musical instrument.
    Sec. 612. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to 
authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use 
of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons may be used to distribute or make available 
any commercially published information or material to a prisoner when 
it is made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate 
or expend such funds that such information or material is sexually 
explicit or features nudity.
    Sec. 614. Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', not more than 90 percent of the amount to be awarded to 
an entity under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant shall be made 
available to such an entity when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that the 
entity that employs a public safety officer (as such term is defined in 
section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968) does not provide such a public safety officer who retires 
or is separated from service due to injury suffered as the direct and 
proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty 
while responding to an emergency situation or a hot pursuit (as such 
terms are defined by State law) with the same or better level of health 
insurance benefits at the time of retirement or separation as they 
received while on duty.
    Sec. 615. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 616 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) Subsection (a)(1) of section 616 of that Act is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after ``Gonzalez''; and
            (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end of the 
        following, ``, Jean-Yvon Toussaint, and Jimmy Lalanne''.
    (c) The requirements in subsections (b) and (c) of section 616 of 
that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 616. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this Act or 
any other provision of law may be used for (1) the implementation of 
any tax or fee in connection with the implementation of 18 U.S.C. 
922(t); (2) any system to implement 18 U.S.C. 922(t) that does not 
require and result in the immediate destruction of any identifying 
information submitted by or on behalf of any person who has been 
determined not to be prohibited from owning a firearm.
    Sec. 617. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay to house any individual, other 
than an attorney, attending a Federal law enforcement training center 
in a privately owned or operated place of lodging.
    Sec. 618. Section 309(j)(8) of the Communications Act of 1934 is 
amended by adding new paragraph (D) as follows:
                    ``(D) Protection of interests.--
                            ``(i) Title 11, United States Code, or any 
                        otherwise applicable Federal or state law 
                        regarding insolvencies or receiverships, or any 
                        succeeding Federal law not expressly in 
                        derogation of this subsection, shall not apply 
                        to or be construed to apply to the Commission 
                        or limit the rights, powers, or duties of the 
                        Commission with respect to (a) a license or 
                        permit issued by the Commission under this 
                        subsection or a payment made to or a debt or 
                        other obligation owed to the Commission 
                        relating to or rising from such a license or 
                        permit, (b) an interest of the Commission in 
                        property securing such a debt or other 
                        obligation, or (c) an act by the Commission to 
                        issue, deny, cancel, or transfer control of 
                        such a license or permit.
                            ``(ii) Notwithstanding otherwise applicable 
                        law, the Commission shall be deemed to have a 
                        perfected, first priority security interest in 
                        a license or construction permit issued by the 
                        Commission under this subsection and the 
                        proceeds of such a license or permit for which 
                        a debt or other obligation is owed to the 
                        Commission under this subsection.
                            ``(iii) This paragraph shall apply 
                        retroactively, including to pending cases and 
                        proceedings whether on appeal or otherwise.''.
    Sec. 619. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
provided for or used by the National Security Council or personnel 
working for or detailed to the Council.

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          working capital fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$22,577,000 are rescinded.

                            Legal Activities

                         asset forfeiture fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$5,500,000 are rescinded.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                   drug diversion control fee account

                              (rescission)

    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 2000 for 
the Drug Diversion Control Fee Account are reduced by $35,000,000.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds provided under the heading, ``Operations, Research, 
and Facilities'' in the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1992 (Public Law 102-368), $3,400,000 are rescinded.

                DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

           Security and Maintenance of United States Missions

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$58,436,000 are rescinded.

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$18,780,000 are rescinded.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000''.


                                                       Calendar No. 153

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1217

                          [Report No. 106-76]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2000, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 14, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar