[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2334 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2334

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1999, and for other purposes, namely:

               TITLE I--EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                export-import bank of the united states

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon State as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

                         subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $785,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until 2013 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
2001, and 2002: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
by this Act or any prior Act appropriating funds for foreign 
operations, export financing, or related programs for tied-aid credits 
or grants may be used for any other purpose except through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated by this paragraph are made available 
notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of the Export Import Bank Act of 1945, 
in connection with the purchase or lease of any product by any East 
European country, any Baltic State or any agency or national thereof.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs (to be computed on an accrual basis), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
$49,000,000: Provided, That necessary expenses (including special 
services performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other 
personal services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the 
Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other 
assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank in satisfaction of moneys 
owed the Export-Import Bank, or the investigation or appraisal of any 
property, or the evaluation of the legal or technical aspects of any 
transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance 
commitment has been made, shall be considered nonadministrative 
expenses for the purposes of this heading: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement 
Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 1999.

                overseas private investment corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for 
official reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed 
$35,000) shall not exceed $32,000,000 of which not more than 
$16,500,000 may be made available until the Corporation reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations on measures taken to (1) establish sector 
specific investment funds; and (2) support regional investment 
initiatives in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan through the Caucasus 
Fund: Provided further, That the Corporation shall provide a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations within 45 days of enactment regarding 
the use of funds it has made or plans to make available consistent with 
the President's Global Climate Change Initiative: Provided further, 
That project-specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect 
costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs associated 
with services provided to specific investors or potential investors 
pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall 
not be considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this 
heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $50,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
noncredit account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 1999 and 2000: 
Provided further, That such sums shall remain available through fiscal 
year 2007 for the disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated 
in fiscal year 1999, and through fiscal year 2008 for the disbursement 
of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 2000: Provided 
further, That in addition, such sums as may be necessary for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit program may be derived 
from amounts available for administrative expenses to carry out the 
credit and insurance programs in the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $43,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the Trade and Development 
Agency may receive reimbursements from corporations and other entities 
for the costs of grants for feasibility studies and other project 
planning services, to be deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
account and to be available for obligation until September 30, 2000, 
for necessary expenses under this paragraph: Provided further, That 
such reimbursements shall not cover, or be allocated against, direct or 
indirect administrative costs of the agency.

                TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 1999, unless 
otherwise specified herein, as follows:

                  agency for international development

                         development assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106, section 301, and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, title V of the International Security and 
Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533) and the 
provisions of section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, 
$1,904,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated under this heading, up to $20,000,000 
may be made available for the Inter-American Foundation and shall be 
apportioned directly to that Agency: Provided further, That of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, up to $8,000,000 may be made 
available for the African Development Foundation and shall be 
apportioned directly to that agency: Provided further, That of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, the amount made available for 
activities to strengthen global surveillance and control of infectious 
diseases, that is in addition to funds made available for the 
prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, HIV/AIDS, shall 
be at least equal to the amount available in fiscal year 1998 for such 
purposes under the heading ``Child Survival and Disease Programs 
Fund'': Provided further, That such funds shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
not less than $50,000,000 should be made available for activities 
addressing the health and nutrition needs of pregnant women and 
mothers: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $100,000,000 shall be made available for the 
United Nations Children's Fund: Provided further, That not less than 
$435,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be made 
available to carry out the provisions of section 104(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available in this Act nor any unobligated balances from prior 
appropriations may be made available to any organization or program 
which, as determined by the President of the United States, supports or 
participates in the management of a program of coercive abortion or 
involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading may be used to pay for the 
performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to motivate 
or coerce any person to practice abortions; and that in order to reduce 
reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be available 
only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly 
or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range 
of family planning methods and services: Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, 
all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this or any other Act 
authorizing or appropriating funds for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates 
to family planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
provision, consistent with local law, of information or counseling 
about all pregnancy options: Provided further, That nothing in this 
paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, of the funds appropriated 
under this heading in this Act, and of the unobligated balances of 
funds previously appropriated under this heading, $2,500,000 shall be 
transferred to ``International Organizations and Programs'' for a 
contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
(IFAD): Provided further, That of the aggregate amount of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and the Support for Eastern European Democracy Act of 1989, 
$305,000,000 should be made available for agriculture and rural 
development programs including international agriculture research 
programs: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under the 
previous proviso not less than $80,000,000 shall be made available for 
alternative development programs to drug production in Colombia, Peru 
and Bolivia: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading that are made available for assistance programs for 
displaced and orphaned children and victims of war, not to exceed 
$25,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, 
may be used to monitor and provide oversight of such programs: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $2,000,000 shall be made available for agriculture programs in 
Laos: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $15,000,000 shall be made available for the 
American Schools and Hospitals Abroad Program: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading not less than $500,000 
shall be made available for support of the United States 
Telecommunications Training Institute: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading that are made available for 
Haiti, $250,000 shall be made available to support a program to assist 
Haitian children in orphanages: Provided further, That, of the funds 
appropriated under this heading and made available for activities 
pursuant to the Microenterprise Initiative, not less than one-half 
shall be expended on programs providing loans of less than $300 to very 
poor people, particularly women, or for institutional support of 
organizations primarily engaged in making such loans: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amounts made 
available under title II of this Act, not less than $10,000,000 shall 
be made available only for assistance to the Iraqi democratic 
opposition for such activities as organization, training, communication 
and dissemination of information, and developing and implementing 
agreements among opposition groups: Provided further, That any 
agreement reached regarding the obligation of funds under the previous 
proviso shall include provisions to ensure appropriate monitoring on 
the use of such funds: Provided further, That of this amount not less 
than $3,000,000 shall be made available as a grant to Iraqi National 
Congress, to be administered by its Executive Committee for the benefit 
of all constituent groups of the Iraqi National Congress: Provided 
further, That of the amounts previously appropriated under section 
10008 of Public Law 105-174 not less than $2,000,000 shall be made 
available as a grant to INDICT, the International Campaign to Indict 
Iraqi War Criminals, for the purpose of compiling information to 
support the indictment of Iraqi officials for war crimes: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this section, not 
less than $1,000,000 shall be made available as a grant to INDICT, the 
International Campaign to Indict Iraqi War Criminals, for the purpose 
of compiling information to support the indictment of Iraqi officials 
for war crimes: Provided further, That of the amounts made available 
under this section, not less than $3,000,000 shall be made available 
only for the conduct of activities by the Iraqi democratic opposition 
inside Iraq: Provided further, That within 30 days of enactment of this 
Act the Secretary of State shall submit a detailed report to the 
appropriate committees of Congress on implementation of this heading.

                                 cyprus

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
shall be made available for Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, 
administrative support of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, 
and measures aimed at reunification of the island and designed to 
reduce tensions and promote peace and cooperation between the two 
communities on Cyprus.

                                 burma

    Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Development 
Assistance'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available to 
support democracy activities in Burma, democracy and humanitarian 
activities along the Burma-Thailand border, and for Burmese student 
groups and other organizations located outside Burma: Provided, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, not less than $500,000 
shall be made available for newspapers, media, and publications 
promoting democracy in and related to Burma: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made 
available to support the provision of medical supplies and services, 
education and humanitarian assistance to displaced Burmese along the 
Burma borders: Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
democracy activities under this heading, not less than $2,000,000 shall 
be made available subject to written consultation and guidelines 
provided by the leadership of the Burmese government elected in 1990: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Burma-related 
activities under this heading may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law: Provided further, That the provision of such 
funds shall be made available subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                                cambodia

    None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
for activities or programs for Cambodia until the Secretary of State 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that: (1) 
Cambodia has held free and fair elections; (2) during the twelve months 
prior to the elections, no candidate of any opposition party was 
murdered; (3) all political candidates were permitted freedom of 
speech, assembly and equal access to the media; (4) voter registration 
and participation rates did not exceed the eligible population in any 
region; (5) refugees and overseas Cambodians were permitted to vote; 
(6) the Central Election Commission was comprised of representatives 
from all parties; and (7) international monitors were accorded 
appropriate access to polling sites: Provided, That the restriction on 
funds made available under this paragraph shall not apply to demining 
or humanitarian programs or activities administered by nongovernmental 
organizations.

                               indonesia

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $100,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Indonesia: Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of such funds shall be made available to address 
nationwide food, medical, fuel, and other shortages: Provided further, 
That not less than 80 percent of the assistance made available for 
Indonesia under this heading shall be made available, administered or 
distributed through indigenous non-governmental or private voluntary 
organizations: Provided further, That not less than $6,000,000 shall be 
made available to support the development of political institutions and 
parties: Provided further, That not less than $8,000,000 of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be made available to improve 
transparency and regulation of banking, financial, insurance, and 
securities institutions: Provided further, That not less than 
$8,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available to support legal and judicial reforms: Provided further, That 
thirty days after enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the 
Agency for International Development shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations with a nationwide assessment of economic, legal, 
political and humanitarian consequences and needs resulting from the 
economic collapse in Indonesia.

                   mitch mcconnell conservation fund

    Of the funds made available under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $1,200,000 shall 
be made available for research, conservation, training and related 
activities for the Province of the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, of which 
not less than $500,000 shall be made available for activities conducted 
by the Charles Darwin Research Station: Provided, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $200,000 shall be made available to 
support training and conservation activities conducted by the Galapagos 
National Park Service: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, not less than $500,000 shall be made 
available as a contribution to an endowment for the Charles Darwin 
Research Station and Foundation: Provided further, That additional 
funds for this endowment may be made available to match private sector 
donations.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $200,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That, of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $500,000 shall be 
available only to Catholic Relief Services solely for the purpose of 
the purchase, transport, or installation of a hydraulic drilling 
machine to provide potable drinking water in the region of the Nuba 
Mountains in Sudan.

          treasury international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out Department of the Treasury 
international affairs technical assistance activities, $3,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, which shall be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for economic technical 
assistance and for related programs.

                           debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of modifying direct loans and loan guarantees, as the 
President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the International Affairs 
Budget Function 150, including the cost of selling, reducing, or 
canceling amounts, through debt buybacks and swaps, owed to the United 
States as a result of concessional loans made to eligible Latin 
American and Caribbean countries, pursuant to part IV of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, and of modifying concessional credit agreements 
with least developed countries, as authorized under section 411 of the 
Agriculture Trade and Assistance Act of 1954 as amended; and of 
modifying any obligation, or portion of such obligation of Honduras to 
pay for purchases of United States agricultural commodities guaranteed 
by the Commodity Credit Corporation under export credit guarantee 
programs authorized pursuant to section 5(f) of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as amended, section 4(b) of 
the Food for Peace Act of 1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or 
section 202 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (Public 
Law 95-501); $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

         micro and small enterprise development program account

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,500,000, as 
authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined in section 502 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That section 
108(i)(2)(C) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read 
as follows: ``(C) No guarantee of any loan may guarantee more than 50 
percent of the principal amount of any such loan, except guarantees of 
loans in support of microenterprise activites may guarantee up to 70 
percent of the principal amount of any such loan.''. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out programs under this heading, 
$500,000, all of which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading shall remain available until September 30, 2000.

             urban and environmental credit program account

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of guaranteed loans authorized by sections 221 and 222 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $3,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize 
loan principal, 100 per centum of which shall be guaranteed, pursuant 
to the authority of such sections. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out guaranteed loan programs, $4,000,000, all of 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development: 
Provided further, That the second and third sentences of section 222(a) 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and the third and fourth 
sentences of section 223(j) of such Act are repealed.

                  private and voluntary organizations

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 per centum of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development may, on a case-by-case basis, 
waive the restriction contained in this paragraph, after taking into 
account the effectiveness of the overseas development activities of the 
organization, its level of volunteer support, its financial viability 
and stability, and the degree of its dependence for its financial 
support on the agency: Provided further, That section 123(g) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the paragraph entitled ``Private and 
Voluntary Organizations'' in title II of the Foreign Assistance and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1985 (as enacted in Public Law 98-
473) are hereby repealed.
    Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under title II of 
this Act should be made available to private and voluntary 
organizations at a level which is at least equivalent to the level 
provided in fiscal year 1995. Such private and voluntary organizations 
shall include those which operate on a not-for-profit basis, receive 
contributions from private sources, receive voluntary support from the 
public and are deemed to be among the most cost-effective and 
successful providers of development assistance.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $44,552,000.

     operating expenses of the agency for international development

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$475,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
administered by the Agency for International Development may be used to 
finance printing costs of any report or study (except feasibility, 
design, or evaluation reports or studies) in excess of $25,000 without 
the approval of the Administrator of the Agency or the Administrator's 
designee.

 operating expenses of the agency for international development office 
                          of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000, which sum 
shall be available for the Office of the Inspector General of the 
Agency for International Development.

                  Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,305,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $1,080,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1998, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $775,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance shall be 
provided with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant 
economic reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in 
previous fiscal years and, of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be 
provided as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading for Egypt not less than 
$40,000,000 shall be made available to establish an Enterprise Fund for 
Egypt, notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided further, 
That the provisions of subsection (b) under the heading ``Assistance 
for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'' shall be applicable to funds 
made available for an Enterprise Fund for Egypt: Provided further, That 
in exercising the authority to provide cash transfer assistance for 
Israel, the President shall ensure that the level of such assistance 
does not cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary 
exports from the United States to such country: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$150,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Jordan: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $10,000,000 may be used to support victims of and programs 
related to the Holocaust.

          assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $432,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for economic assistance and for related programs for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States: Provided, That of the funds made 
available under this heading and the headings ``International Narcotics 
and Law Enforcement'', ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic 
Support Fund'', not to exceed $200,000,000 shall be made available for 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior 
appropriations Acts that are or have been made available for an 
Enterprise Fund may be deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing 
accounts prior to the Fund's disbursement of such funds for program 
purposes. The Fund may retain for such program purposes any interest 
earned on such deposits without returning such interest to the Treasury 
of the United States and without further appropriation by the Congress. 
Funds made available for Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the 
minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities.
    (c) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.
    (d) With regard to funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this heading for the economic revitalization program in Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, and local currencies generated by such funds 
(including the conversion of funds appropriated under this heading into 
currency used by Bosnia and Herzegovina as local currency and local 
currency returned or repaid under such program)--
            (1) the Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans 
        prior to the obligation and expenditure of funds for such 
        purposes, and prior to the use of funds that have been returned 
        or repaid to any lending facility or grantee; and
            (2) the provisions of section 533 of this Act shall apply.

  assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 
11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM 
Support Act, for assistance for the New Independent States of the 
former Soviet Union and for related programs, $740,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the provisions of 
such chapter shall apply to funds appropriated by this paragraph: 
Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary may be transferred 
to the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the cost of any 
financing under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 for activities for 
the New Independent States.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$210,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine: 
Provided, That 50 percent of the amount made available in this 
subsection, exclusive of funds made available for nuclear safety, Free 
Market Democracy Fund activities and law enforcement reforms, shall be 
withheld from obligation and expenditure until the Secretary of State 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that Ukraine has undertaken 
significant economic reforms additional to those achieved in fiscal 
year 1998, and include: (1) reform and effective enforcement of 
commercial and tax codes; and (2) continued progress on resolution of 
complaints by U.S. investors: Provided further, That the report in the 
previous proviso shall be provided 120 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act: Provided further, That if the Secretary cannot certify 
that progress has been achieved, the funds withheld shall be returned 
to the United States Treasury: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available for Ukraine under this subsection, not less than $22,000,000 
shall be made available only for assistance for comprehensive legal 
restructuring necessary to support a decentralized market-oriented 
economic system, and the implementation of reforms necessary to 
establish an independent judiciary including the education of judges, 
attorneys, and law students: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available for Ukraine under this subsection, not less than $8,000,000 
shall be made available to support law enforcement institutions and 
training: Provided further, That not less than $25,000,000 of such 
funds shall be made available for nuclear reactor safety programs, of 
which not less than $1,000,000 shall be made available for personnel 
security initiatives at all nuclear reactor installations: Provided 
further, That of such funds, not less than $700,000 shall be made 
available to establish and support a Free Market Democracy Fund to be 
administered by the United States Ambassador to Ukraine in consultation 
with the Coordinator for the New Independent States of the former 
Soviet Union.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$95,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Georgia, of 
which not less than $35,000,000 shall be made available to support 
economic reforms including small business development and the 
development of banking, insurance and securities institutions: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this subsection, not 
less than $8,000,000 shall be made available for judicial reform and 
law enforcement training: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this subsection, not less than $20,000,000 shall be 
made available to support training and infrastructure for secure 
communications and surveillance systems for border and customs control.
    (d) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$90,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Armenia, of 
which not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for an 
endowment for the American University of Armenia: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this subsection, not less than $4,000,000 
shall be made available for nuclear safety activities.
    (e) Funds made available under this Act or any other Act may not be 
provided for assistance to the Government of Azerbaijan until the 
President determines, and so reports to the Congress, that the 
Government of Azerbaijan is taking demonstrable steps to cease all 
blockades and other offensive uses of force against Armenia and 
Nagorno-Karabakh: Provided, That the restriction of this subsection and 
section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
        ``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997'';
            (2) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (3) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (4) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.);
            (5) any activity carried out by a member of the Foreign 
        Commercial Service while acting within his or her official 
        capacity; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.
    (f) Of the funds made available under this heading for nuclear 
safety activities, not to exceed 9 percent of the funds provided for 
any single project may be used to pay for management costs incurred by 
a United States national lab in administering said project.
    (g) Of the funds appropriated under title II of this Act, including 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $10,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Mongolia: Provided, That funds 
made available for assistance for Mongolia may be made available in 
accordance with the purposes and utilizing the authorities provided in 
chapter 11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (h) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for Russia unless the President determines and certifies in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
Russia has terminated implementation of arrangements to provide Iran 
with technical expertise, training, technology, or equipment necessary 
to develop a nuclear reactor, related nuclear research facilities or 
programs, or ballistic missile capability.

                           Independent Agency

                              peace corps

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $221,000,000, including the purchase of not 
to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000.

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $222,000,000: Provided, That of this amount not 
less than $9,000,000 shall be made available for Law Enforcement 
Training and Demand Reduction: Provided further, That in addition to 
any funds previously made available for the International Law 
Enforcement Academy for the Western Hemisphere, not less than 
$5,000,000 shall be made available to establish and operate the 
International Law Enforcement Academy for the Western Hemisphere at the 
deBremond Training Center in Roswell, New Mexico.

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross, assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the International Organization for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $650,000,000: Provided, That not more than $12,000,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses: Provided further, That not less 
than $70,000,000 shall be made available for refugees from the former 
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and other refugees resettling in 
Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $20,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 
2(c)(2) of the Act which would limit the amount of funds which could be 
appropriated for this purpose.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and 
related programs and activities, $170,000,000, to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support 
Act for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
activities implemented through nongovernmental and international 
organizations, section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a 
voluntary contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
and a voluntary contribution to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 
Organization (KEDO): Provided, That of this amount not to exceed 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be made available 
for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation and disarmament: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for countries other than the 
New Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading not to exceed $35,000,000 may be made available for 
demining, clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available for demining and 
related activities, not to exceed $500,000, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, may be used for administrative 
expenses related to the operation and management of the demining 
program: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading up to $40,000,000 may be made available for the International 
Atomic Energy Agency only if the Secretary of State determines (and so 
reports to the Congress) that Israel is not being denied its right to 
participate in the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $35,000,000 
may be made available to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 
Organization only for the administrative expenses and heavy fuel oil 
costs associated with the Agreed Framework: Provided further, That such 
funds may be obligated to KEDO only if, thirty days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that: (1)(A) the parties to the Agreed Framework are taking steps to 
assure that progress is made on the implementation of the January 1, 
1992, Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula 
and the implementation of the North-South dialogue, and (B) North Korea 
is complying with all provisions of the Agreed Framework between North 
Korea and the United States and with the Confidential Minute; (2) North 
Korea is cooperating fully in the canning and safe storage of all spent 
fuel from its graphite-moderated nuclear reactors; (3) North Korea has 
not significantly diverted assistance provided by the United States for 
purposes for which it was not intended; (4) North Korea is not actively 
pursuing the acquisition or development of a nuclear capability (other 
than the light-water reactors provided for by the 1994 Agreed Framework 
Between the United States and North Korea); and (5) North Korea is not 
providing ballistic missiles or ballistic missile technology to a 
country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined 
is a terrorist government for the purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms 
Export Control Act or any other comparable provision of law: Provided 
further, That the President may waive the certification requirements of 
the preceding proviso if the President determines that it is vital to 
the national security interests of the United States: Provided further, 
That no funds may be obligated for KEDO until 30 days after submission 
to Congress of the waiver permitted under the preceding proviso: 
Provided further, That the obligation of any funds for KEDO shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report (to 
be submitted with the annual presentation for appropriations) providing 
a full and detailed accounting of the fiscal year request for the 
United States contribution to KEDO, the expected operating budget of 
the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, to include unpaid 
debt, proposed annual costs associated with heavy fuel oil purchases, 
and the amount of funds pledged by other donor nations and 
organizations to support KEDO activities on a per country basis, and 
other related activities: Provided further, That the Director of 
Central Intelligence will provide for review and consideration by the 
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, House International 
Relations Committee, House National Security Committee, Senate 
Appropriations Committee, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee 
all relevant intelligence bearing on North Korea's compliance with the 
provisions of this proviso. Such provision will occur not less than 45 
days prior to the President's certification as provided for under this 
heading: Provided further, That for the purposes of this heading, the 
term intelligence includes National Intelligence Estimates, 
Intelligence Memoranda, Findings and other intelligence reports based 
on multiple sources or including the assessment of more than one member 
of the Intelligence Community.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $50,000,000: Provided, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and training may be 
provided under this heading may include civilians who are not members 
of a government whose participation would contribute to improved civil-
military relations, civilian control of the military, or respect for 
human rights: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading for grant financed military education and training for 
Guatemala may only be available for expanded international military 
education and training.

                   foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,322,910,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,860,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within 
thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1998, whichever 
is later: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of 
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and 
the United States, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than 26.5 percent shall be available for the procurement in 
Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $48,000,000 shall be available for assistance 
for Jordan: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, a total of $15,300,000 shall be available for assistance for 
Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph, not less than $7,000,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for Tunisia: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 1999, the President is authorized to, and shall, direct the 
draw-downs of defense articles from the stocks of the Department of 
Defense, defense services of the Department of Defense, and military 
education and training of an aggregate value of not less than 
$5,000,000 under the authority of this proviso for Tunisia for the 
purposes of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be 
nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this paragraph shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with 
paragraph (5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a): 
Provided further, That $30,000,000 of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this heading shall be made available for 
the purpose of facilitating the integration of Poland, Hungary, and the 
Czech Republic into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct loans authorized by section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act as follows: cost of direct loans, $20,000,000: 
Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of not to exceed $167,000,000.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: 
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 515 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for Sudan and 
Liberia: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for demining, 
the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities, and may 
include activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations: Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for Guatemala: Provided further, 
That only those countries for which assistance was justified for the 
``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 
congressional presentation for security assistance programs may utilize 
funds made available under this heading for procurement of defense 
articles, defense services or design and construction services that are 
not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export Control 
Act: Provided further, That, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, funds made available 
under this heading for the cost of direct loans may also be used to 
supplement the funds available under this heading for grants, and funds 
made available under this heading for grants may also be used to 
supplement the funds available under this heading for the cost of 
direct loans: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for defense articles and services: Provided further, That not 
more than $29,910,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may 
be obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the 
United States, for the general costs of administering military 
assistance and sales: Provided further, That not more than $340,000,000 
of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of 
Defense during fiscal year 1999 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms 
Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded only 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $75,000,000: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading for the Multilateral Force and 
Observers (MFO) may be made available until the Secretary of State 
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the Director General 
employed prior to 1998 has not been retained in any capacity by the 
MFO.

               TITLE IV--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  funds appropriated to the president

                  international financial institutions

       the international bank for reconstruction and development

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $800,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds may be obligated or made 
available until the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that the 
Comptroller General has been provided full and regular access to: (1) 
the financial and related records of IDA for the purposes of conducting 
audits of current loans and financial assistance provided by the 
institution; and (2) management personnel manuals, procedures, and 
policy guidelines: Provided further, That following the review 
conducted in the previous proviso, the Comptroller General shall report 
to the Committees on Appropriations on the results of the audit and 
recommendations to improve institutional personnel procedures, 
especially regarding the protection of individuals alleging 
mismanagement, fraud, or abuses: Provided further, That the obligation 
of funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, for the United States share of the paid-in share 
portion of the increase in capital stock, $25,610,667.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $1,503,718,910.

               contribution to the asian development bank

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $13,221,596, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $647,858,204.

  contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $35,778,717, for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, to 
remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $123,237,803.

                International Organizations and Programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $170,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That not less than $5,000,000 shall be 
made available to the World Food Program: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available under this heading, may be provided to the 
Climate Stabilization Fund until fifteen days after the Department of 
State provides a report to the Committees on Foreign Relations and 
Appropriations detailing the number of Fund employees and associated 
salaries and the fiscal year 1998 and 1999 Fund activities, programs or 
projects and associated costs: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available to the Korean 
Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO) or the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          obligations of funds

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 percent of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.

     prohibition of bilateral funding for international financial 
                              institutions

    Sec. 502. Notwithstanding section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, none of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be 
used to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.

                    limitation on residence expenses

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

                         limitation on expenses

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal 
year.

               limitation on representational allowances

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned 
foreign currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available by this Act for general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available 
for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances.

                 prohibition on financing nuclear goods

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``Nonproliferation, Antiterrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'') pursuant to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, except for purposes of nuclear 
safety, to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or 
technology.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, 
North Korea, Iran, Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall include 
direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-Import 
Bank or its agents.

                             military coups

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance to any country whose duly elected Head 
of Government is deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That 
assistance may be resumed to such country if the President determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the 
termination of assistance a democratically elected government has taken 
office.

                       transfers between accounts

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in this 
Act, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                  deobligation/reobligation authority

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under title II of this Act are, if deobligated, hereby 
continued available for the same period as the respective 
appropriations under such headings or until September 30, 1999, 
whichever is later, and for the same general purpose, and for countries 
within the same region as originally obligated: Provided, That the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of the Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of the reobligation of such funds in accordance 
with regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 
23 of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under 
this Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be 
used in fiscal year 1999.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1, 8, and 11 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, and funds provided under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', shall remain available until 
expended if such funds are initially obligated before the expiration of 
their respective periods of availability contained in this Act: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, any funds made available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I 
and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which 
are allocated or obligated for cash disbursements in order to address 
balance of payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the report required by 
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate 
for each country, to the extent known at the time of submission of such 
report, those funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of 
payment and economic policy reform purposes.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United States 
of principal or interest on any loan made to such country by the United 
States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated under 
this Act: Provided, That this section and section 620(q) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds made available in this 
Act or during the current fiscal year for Nicaragua, and for any 
narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru authorized 
by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act.

                           commerce and trade

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the 
commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the 
resulting productive capacity is expected to become operative and if 
the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers 
of the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the 
judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and 
employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar or competing commodity, 
and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact in the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        American producers.

                          surplus commodities

    Sec. 514. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American 
Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Asian 
Development Bank, the Inter-American Investment Corporation, the North 
American Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the African Development Bank, and the African Development 
Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any 
assistance by these institutions, using funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to this Act, for the production or extraction of any 
commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world markets 
and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.
    (b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States 
executive directors of international financial institutions listed in 
subsection (a) of this section to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to support the purchase of American produced agricultural 
commodities with funds appropriated or made available pursuant to this 
Act.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 515. For the purpose of providing the Executive Branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Development Assistance'', ``Debt 
restructuring'', ``International organizations and programs'', ``Trade 
and Development Agency'', ``International narcotics control and law 
enforcement'', ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Peacekeeping operations'', 
``Operating expenses of the Agency for International Development'', 
``Operating expenses of the Agency for International Development Office 
of Inspector General'', ``Nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining 
and related programs'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
``International military education and training'', the Inter-American 
Foundation, the African Development Foundation, ``Peace Corps'', 
``Migration and refugee assistance'', shall be available for obligation 
for activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of the amount 
justified to the Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of 
these specific headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are previously notified fifteen days in advance: 
Provided, That the President shall not enter into any commitment of 
funds appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other than 
conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified 
to Congress or 20 per centum in excess of the quantities justified to 
Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified fifteen 
days in advance of such commitment: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or 
project under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
of less than 10 per centum of the amount previously justified to the 
Congress for obligation for such activity, program, or project for the 
current fiscal year: Provided further, That the requirements of this 
section or any similar provision of this Act or any other Act, 
including any prior Act requiring notification in accordance with the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
may be waived if failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to 
human health or welfare: Provided further, That in case of any such 
waiver, notification to the Congress, or the appropriate congressional 
committees, shall be provided as early as practicable, but in no event 
later than three days after taking the action to which such 
notification requirement was applicable, in the context of the 
circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any 
notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 516. Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000: Provided, That 
section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, is amended by 
inserting before the period at the end thereof ``, or at the discretion 
of the President, Communist countries listed in section 620(f) of this 
Act''.

              economic support fund assistance for israel

    Sec. 517. The Congress finds that progress on the peace process in 
the Middle East is vitally important to United States security 
interests in the region. The Congress recognizes that, in fulfilling 
its obligations under the Treaty of Peace Between the Arab Republic of 
Egypt and the State of Israel, done at Washington on March 26, 1979, 
Israel incurred severe economic burdens. Furthermore, the Congress 
recognizes that an economically and militarily secure Israel serves the 
security interests of the United States, for a secure Israel is an 
Israel which has the incentive and confidence to continue pursuing the 
peace process. Therefore, the Congress declares that, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, it is the policy and the intention of 
the United States that the funds provided in annual appropriations for 
the Economic Support Fund which are allocated to Israel shall not be 
less than the annual debt repayment (interest and principal) from 
Israel to the United States Government in recognition that such a 
principle serves United States interests in the region.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to lobby for or against 
abortion.

                      funding for family planning

    Sec. 519. In determining eligibility for assistance from funds 
appropriated to carry out section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, non-governmental and multilateral organizations shall not be 
subjected to requirements more restrictive than the requirements 
applicable to foreign governments for such assistance.

                     north korean narcotics report

    Sec. 520. Reporting Requirements Regarding North Korean Narcotics 
Activity. (a) In General.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the appropriate 
committees a report on the cultivation, production, and transshipment 
of opium by North Korea. The report shall be based on all available 
information.
    (b) Annual Reporting Requirement.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, beginning on March 1, 1999, the President shall 
include in the annual International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 
required by section 489 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2291h) information regarding the cultivation, production, and 
transshipment of opium by North Korea.

                   special notification requirements

    Sec. 521. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, India, Haiti, Liberia, Pakistan, 
Serbia, Sudan, or the Democratic Republic of Congo except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committee on 
Appropriations.

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 522. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the Appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all Appropriations and Authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as (1) 
justified to the Congress, or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within thirty days of enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

               child survival, aids, and other activities

    Sec. 523. Up to $10,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for family planning, health, child survival, basic 
education and AIDS, may be used to reimburse United States Government 
agencies, agencies of State governments, institutions of higher 
learning, and private and voluntary organizations for the full cost of 
individuals (including for the personal services of such individuals) 
detailed or assigned to, or contracted by, as the case may be, the 
Agency for International Development for the purpose of carrying out 
family planning activities, child survival, and basic education 
activities, and activities relating to research on, and the prevention, 
treatment and control of acquired immune deficiency syndrome or other 
diseases in developing countries: Provided, That funds appropriated by 
this Act that are made available for child survival activities or 
disease programs including activities relating to research on, and the 
treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome may be 
made available notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this Act that are made available for family planning 
activities may be made available notwithstanding section 512 of this 
Act and section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

       prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 524. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Iran, Syria, North 
Korea, or the People's Republic of China, unless the President of the 
United States certifies that the withholding of these funds is contrary 
to the national interest of the United States.

                           reciprocal leasing

    Sec. 525. Section 61(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended 
by striking out ``1998'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``the current 
fiscal year''.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 526. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as are 
other committees pursuant to subsection (c) of that section: Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such 
Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of 
such defense articles.

                       authorization requirement

    Sec. 527. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

       prohibition on bilateral assistance to terrorist countries

    Sec. 528. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for bilateral assistance under any heading of this Act and 
funds appropriated under any such heading in a provision of law enacted 
prior to enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
        group which has committed an act of international terrorism, or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
      (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to 
a country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least fifteen days before 
the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 529. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt and NATO 
and major non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing (including 
leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from United 
States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment 
(other than helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
civilian application), if the President determines that there are 
compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for those 
defense articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by 
government-to-government sale under such Act.

                         competitive insurance

    Sec. 530. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, 
shall include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies 
have a fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is 
necessary or appropriate.

                  stingers in the persian gulf region

    Sec. 531. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms 
Export Control Act or chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 532. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under title II of this Act and any interest earned on such investment 
shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance was provided to 
that organization.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 533. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation 
of local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency 
for International Development shall--
            (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
        separate account established by that government;
            (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
        forth--
                    (i) the amount of the local currencies to be 
                generated, and
                    (ii) the terms and conditions under which the 
                currencies so deposited may be utilized, consistent 
                with this section; and
            (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
        responsibilities of the Agency for International Development 
        and that government to monitor and account for deposits into 
        and disbursements from the separate account.
    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local 
currencies, shall be used only--
            (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
        part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                    (i) project and sector assistance activities, or
                    (ii) debt and deficit financing, or
            (B) for the administrative requirements of the United 
        States Government.
    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the 
equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2)(A) from the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 
of part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
which remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Conforming Amendments.--The tenth and eleventh provisos 
contained under the heading ``Sub-Saharan Africa, Development 
Assistance'' as included in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989 and sections 531(d) and 
609 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are repealed.
    (6) Reporting Requirement.--The Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall report on an annual basis as part of 
the justification documents submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the use of local currencies for the administrative 
requirements of the United States Government as authorized in 
subsection (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used and/or to be used 
for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is 
made available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 
or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such funds in a 
separate account and not commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the 
Committee of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (H. 
Report No. 98-1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least fifteen days prior to obligating any 
such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed 
description of how the funds proposed to be made available will be 
used, with a discussion of the United States interests that will be 
served by the assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of 
the economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

  compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 534. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, 
or while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, the North 
American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.

         compliance with united nations sanctions against iraq

    Sec. 535. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act to carry out the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part I, relating to the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms Export Control Act 
may be used to provide assistance to any country that is not in 
compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions against 
Iraq unless the President determines and so certifies to the Congress 
that--
            (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the 
        United States;
            (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people 
        in that country; or
            (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
        assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.

           competitive pricing for sales of defense articles

    Sec. 536. Direct costs associated with meeting a foreign customer's 
additional or unique requirements will continue to be allowable under 
contracts under section 22(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. Loadings 
applicable to such direct costs shall be permitted at the same rates 
applicable to procurement of like items purchased by the Department of 
Defense for its own use.

 authorities for the peace corps, international fund for agricultural 
    development, inter-american foundation and african development 
                               foundation

    Sec. 537. (a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development Foundation 
Act. The agency shall promptly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations whenever it is conducting activities or is proposing to 
conduct activities in a country for which assistance is prohibited.
    (b) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, limitations on the 
availability of funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this or any other Act, including prior appropriations Acts, shall 
not be construed to be applicable to the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 538. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
            (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or 
        developing in a foreign country any export processing zone or 
        designated area in which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, 
        and safety laws of that country do not apply, in part or in 
        whole, to activities carried out within that zone or area, 
        unless the President determines and certifies that such 
        assistance is not likely to cause a loss of jobs within the 
        United States; or
            (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes 
        to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, 
        as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of 
        workers in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That in recognition that the 
        application of this subsection should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, the 
        provisions of this subsection shall not preclude assistance for 
        the informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture.

                      sanctions relating to kosova

    Sec. 539. (a) Restrictions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, no sanction, prohibition, or requirement with respect to Serbia or 
Montenegro, may cease to be effective, unless the President first 
submits to the Congress a certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a certification that--
            (1) there is substantial progress toward--
                    (A) the realization of a separate identity for 
                Kosova and the right of the people of Kosova to govern 
                themselves; or
                    (B) the creation of an international protectorate 
                for Kosova;
            (2) there is substantial improvement in the human rights 
        situation in Kosova; and
            (3) international human rights observers are allowed to 
        return to Kosova; and
            (4) the elected government of Kosova is permitted to meet 
        and carry out its legitimate mandate as elected representatives 
        of the people of Kosova; and
            (5) the requirements of the Contact Group demarche to the 
        Government of Kosova of June 1998 have been met.
    (c) Waiver Authority.--The President may waive the application in 
whole or in part, of subsection (a) if the President certifies to the 
Congress that the President has determined that the waiver is necessary 
to meet emergency humanitarian needs or to achieve a negotiated 
settlement of the conflict in Kosova that is acceptable to the parties.

                          special authorities

    Sec. 540. (a) Funds appropriated in title II of this Act that are 
made available for Afghanistan, Lebanon, and for victims of war, 
displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian assistance for 
Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of Kosova, may be 
made available notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided, 
That any such funds that are made available for Cambodia shall be 
subject to the provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and section 906 of the International Security and 
Development Cooperation Act of 1985.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation activities 
and, subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations, energy programs aimed at reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions: Provided, That such assistance shall be subject to sections 
116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) The Agency for International Development may employ personal 
services contractors, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of administering programs for the West Bank and Gaza.

        policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 541. It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and 
        publicly renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel; and
            (2) the President should--
                    (A) take more concrete steps to encourage 
                vigorously Arab League countries to renounce publicly 
                the primary boycotts of Israel and the secondary and 
                tertiary boycotts of American firms that have 
                commercial relations with Israel as a confidence-
                building measure;
                    (B) take into consideration the participation of 
                any recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel 
                and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American 
                firms that have commercial relations with Israel when 
                determining whether to sell weapons to said county;
                    (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being 
                taken by the President to bring about a public 
                renunciation of the Arab primary boycott of Israel and 
                the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
                that have commercial relations with Israel; and
                    (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of 
                the United States to enact laws prohibiting businesses 
                from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
                businesses that do comply.

                       anti-narcotics activities

    Sec. 542. (a) Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act for ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided 
to strengthen the administration of justice in countries in Latin 
America and the Caribbean and in other regions consistent with the 
provisions of section 534(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
except that programs to enhance protection of participants in judicial 
cases may be conducted notwithstanding section 660 of that Act.
    (b) Section 534(c) and the second and third sentences of section 
534(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are repealed.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 543. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
and 11 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'': Provided, That the President 
shall take into consideration, in any case in which a restriction on 
assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, whether 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations is 
in the national interest of the United States: Provided further, That 
before using the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in 
support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the regular 
notification procedures of those committees, including a description of 
the program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the 
reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing 
in this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or involuntary sterilizations contained 
in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 1999, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of such Act 
and made available pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance 
        to countries that support international terrorism; or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that violate internationally recognized 
        human rights.

                                earmarks

    Sec. 544. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked 
may be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States, 
the President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other 
Act shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the 
Administrator of such agency determines and reports promptly to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a 
country or a significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that 
such earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.

                         ceilings and earmarks

    Sec. 545. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so 
directs.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 546. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of enactment of this Act by the 
Congress.

            purchase of american-made equipment and products

    Sec. 547. (a) To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided 
under this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.
    (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, all agriculture commodities, equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-
made.
    (c) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (b) by the Congress.
    (d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress annually 
on the efforts of the heads of each Federal agency and the United 
States directors of international financial institutions (as referenced 
in section 514) in complying with this sense of Congress.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 548. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 549. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing 
law.

             private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 550. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for 
International Development.

  prohibition on assistance to foreign governments that export lethal 
   military equipment to countries supporting international terrorism

    Sec. 551. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal 
military equipment provided under a contract entered into after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of 
the United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.

 withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 552. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a 
foreign country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an 
amount equivalent to 110 per centum of the total unpaid fully 
adjudicated parking fines and penalties owed to the District of 
Columbia by such country as of the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be withheld from obligation for such country until the Secretary of 
State certifies and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional 
committees that such fines and penalties are fully paid to the 
government of the District of Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    limitation on assistance for the plo for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 553. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 604(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 
(title VI of Public Law 104-107) or any other legislation to suspend or 
make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the President 
fails to make the certification under section 604(b)(2) of the Middle 
East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or to suspend the prohibition under 
other legislation, funds appropriated by this Act may not be obligated 
for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for the West 
Bank and Gaza.

                     war crimes tribunals drawdown

    Sec. 554. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the President may direct a drawdown 
pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the 
United Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the 
former Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish to deal with such 
violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination required under 
this section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise required 
under section 552(c): Provided further, That sixty days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and every one hundred eighty days thereafter, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations describing the steps the United States Government is 
taking to collect information regarding allegations of genocide or 
other violations of international law in the former Yugoslavia and to 
furnish that information to the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal for 
the former Yugoslavia: Provided further, That the drawdown made under 
this section for any tribunal shall not be construed as an endorsement 
or precedent for the establishment of any standing or permanent 
international criminal tribunal or court: Provided further, That funds 
made available for the tribunal shall be made available subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                               landmines

    Sec. 555. (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
States Government to sign the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, 
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on 
Their Destruction as soon as practicable. This subsection shall not 
apply unless the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the unified combatant 
commanders certify in writing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the Committee on National Security of the House of 
Representatives that the signing of the Convention is consistent with 
the combat requirements and safety of the Armed Forces of the United 
States.
    (b) Demining Equipment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, demining equipment available to the Agency for International 
Development and the Department of State and used in support of the 
clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian 
purposes may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign countries, 
subject to such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe.

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 556. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office 
of any department or agency of the United States Government for the 
purpose of conducting official United States Government business with 
the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration 
of Principles: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
employees of the United States and officials of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for 
in the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of 
conducting official United States Government business with such 
authority should continue to take place in locations other than 
Jerusalem. As has been true in the past, officers and employees of the 
United States Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other 
subjects with Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in 
the Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

               prohibition of payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 557. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities may be obligated or expended to pay 
for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages;
            (2) food (other than food provided at a military 
        installation) not provided in conjunction with Informational 
        Program trips where students do not stay at a military 
        installation; or
            (3) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
        fees at sporting events and amusement parks.

                  special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 558. (a) Authority to Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms 
        Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation for a 
        Latin American country, to pay for purchases of United States 
        agricultural commodities guaranteed by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation under export credit guarantee programs authorized 
        pursuant to section 5(f) of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
        Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as amended, section 4(b) of the 
        Food for Peace Act of 1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or 
        section 202 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended 
        (Public Law 95-501).
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt relief 
        ad referendum agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club 
        Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided 
        in advance by appropriations Acts.
            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy debt 
        burdens that are eligible to borrow from the International 
        Development Association, but not from the International Bank 
        for Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as 
        ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
        control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security forces) does 
        not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for 
purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The 
authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding 
section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

             authority to engage in debt buybacks or sales

    Sec. 559. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or 
Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain loans.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may, 
        in accordance with this section, sell to any eligible purchaser 
        any concessional loan or portion thereof made before January 1, 
        1995, pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to the 
        government of any eligible country as defined in section 702(6) 
        of that Act or on receipt of payment from an eligible 
        purchaser, reduce or cancel such loan or portion thereof, only 
        for the purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
                swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country of its 
                own qualified debt, only if the eligible country uses 
                an additional amount of the local currency of the 
                eligible country, equal to not less than 40 per centum 
                of the price paid for such debt by such eligible 
                country, or the difference between the price paid for 
                such debt and the face value of such debt, to support 
                activities that link conservation and sustainable use 
                of natural resources with local community development, 
                and child survival and other child development, in a 
                manner consistent with sections 707 through 710 of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, if the sale, reduction, 
                or cancellation would not contravene any term or 
                condition of any prior agreement relating to such loan.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President shall, in accordance with this 
        section, establish the terms and conditions under which loans 
        may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in section 
        702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall notify the 
        administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of 
        purchasers that the President has determined to be eligible, 
        and shall direct such agency to carry out the sale, reduction, 
        or cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section. Such agency 
        shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the sale, 
        reduction, or cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection shall 
        be available only to the extent that appropriations for the 
        cost of the modification, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance.
    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or 
cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or 
accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the 
President for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, 
of any loan made to an eligible country, the President should consult 
with the country concerning the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or 
canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt restructuring''.

                   limitation on assistance for haiti

    Sec. 560. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be provided for assistance for the central Government of Haiti 
until the President reports to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations of the 
House of Representatives, that the central Government of Haiti--
            (1) has completed privatization of (or placed under long-
        term private management or concession) three major public 
        entities including the completion of all required incorporating 
        documents, the transfer of assets, and the eviction of 
        unauthorized occupants of the land or facility;
            (2) has re-signed or is implementing the bilateral 
        Repatriation Agreement with the United States and in the 
        preceding six months that the central Government of Haiti is 
        cooperating with the United States in halting illegal 
        emigration from Haiti;
            (3) is conducting thorough investigations of extrajudicial 
        and political killings and has made substantial progress in 
        bringing to justice a person or persons responsible for one or 
        more extrajudicial or political killings in Haiti;
            (4) is cooperating with United States authorities and with 
        U.S.-funded technical advisors supporting the Haitian National 
        Police in the investigations of political and extrajudicial 
        killings;
            (5) has taken action to remove from the Haitian National 
        Police, national palace and residential guard, ministerial 
        guard, and any other public security entity or unit of Haiti 
        those individuals who are credibly alleged to have engaged in 
        or conspired to conceal gross violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights or credibly alleged to have engaged in 
        or conspired to engage in narcotics trafficking; and
            (6) has ratified or is implementing in the Haitian National 
        Assembly the counter-narcotics agreements signed in October 
        1997.
    (b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
the provision of counter-narcotics assistance, support for the Haitian 
National Police's Special Investigations Unit, the International 
Criminal Investigative Assistance Program (ICITAP), anti-corruption 
programs for the Haitian National Police, customs assistance, 
humanitarian assistance, and education programs.
    (c) Availability of Electoral Assistance.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act may be available to the central Government of Haiti to support 
elections in Haiti when the President reports to the Congress that the 
central Government of Haiti--
            (1) has achieved a transparent settlement of the contested 
        April 1997 elections; and
            (2) has made concrete progress on the constitution of a 
        credible and competent provisional election council that is 
        acceptable to a broad spectrum of political parties and civic 
        groups.
    (d) Support for Political Parties and Grass Roots Civic 
Organizations.--Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in 
subsections (a) or (c) of this section, or any other provision of law, 
of funds otherwise allocated for Haiti not to exceed $3,000,000 may be 
made available for the development and support of political parties and 
for the development of grass roots civic organizations in Haiti.
    (e) Availability of Administration of Justice Assistance.--(1) 
Funds appropriated under this Act for the Ministry of Justice shall 
only be provided if the President certifies to the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that Haiti's Ministry of 
Justice--
            (A) has demonstrated a commitment to the 
        professionalization of judicial personnel by consistently 
        placing students graduated by the Judicial School in 
        appropriate judicial positions and has made a commitment to 
        share program costs associated with the Judicial School;
            (B) is making progress in making the judicial branch in 
        Haiti independent from the executive branch, as outlined in the 
        1987 Constitution; and
            (C) has re-instituted judicial training with the Office of 
        Prosecutorial Development and Training (OPDAT).
    (2) The limitation in subsection (e)(1) shall not apply to the 
provision of funds to support the training of prosecutors, judicial 
mentoring, and case management.
    (f) Reporting.--The Secretary of State shall provide to the 
Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations and of the Senate 
on a biannual basis--
            (1) in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, a report 
        showing the status and number of U.S. personnel deployed in and 
        around Haiti in Department of Defense, Drug Enforcement 
        Administration, or United Nations missions, including 
        breakdowns by functional or operational assignment for these 
        personnel, and the cost to the United States of these 
        operations; and
            (2) an activity report of the OAS/U.N. International 
        Civilian Mission to Haiti (MICIVIH).

  requirement for disclosure of foreign aid in report of secretary of 
                                 state

    Sec. 561. (a) Foreign Aid Reporting Requirement.--In addition to 
the voting practices of a foreign country, the report required to be 
submitted to Congress under section 406(a) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act fiscal years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2414a), shall 
include a side-by-side comparison of individual countries' overall 
support for the United States at the United Nations and the amount of 
United States assistance provided to such country in fiscal year 1998.
    (b) United States Assistance.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``United States assistance'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 481(e)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2291(e)(4)).

                           burma labor report

    Sec. 562. Not later than ninety days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Labor shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report addressing labor practices in Burma: Provided, 
That the report shall provide comprehensive details on child labor 
practices, worker's rights, forced relocation of laborers, forced labor 
performed to support the tourism industry, and forced labor performed 
in conjunction with, and in support of, the Yadonna gas pipeline: 
Provided further, That the report should address whether the government 
is in compliance with international labor standards: Provided further, 
That the report should provide details regarding the United States 
government's efforts to address and correct practices of forced labor 
in Burma.

                                 haiti

    Sec. 563. The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase 
defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the civilian-led Haitian National Police and 
Coast Guard: Provided, That the authority provided by this section 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

              limitation on assistance to security forces

    Sec. 564. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
provided to any unit of the security forces of a foreign country if the 
Secretary of State has credible information to believe such unit has 
committed gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
government of such country is taking effective measures to bring the 
responsible members of the security forces unit to justice: Provided, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to withhold funds made 
available by this Act from any unit of the security forces of a foreign 
country not credibly alleged to be involved in gross violations of 
human rights: Provided further, That in the event that funds are 
withheld from any unit pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State 
shall promptly inform the foreign government of the basis for such 
action and shall, to the maximum extent practicable, assist the foreign 
government in taking effective measures to bring the responsible 
members of the security forces to justice.

                                cambodia

    Sec. 565. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the international financial institutions 
to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose loans to the 
Government of Cambodia, except loans to support basic human needs, 
unless: (1) Cambodia has held free and fair elections; (2) during the 
twelve months prior to the elections, no candidate of any opposition 
party was murdered; (3) all political candidates were permitted freedom 
of speech, assembly and equal access to the media; (4) voter 
registration and participation rates did not exceed the eligible 
population in any region; (5) refugees and overseas Cambodians were 
permitted to vote; (6) the Central Election Commission was comprised of 
representatives from all parties; and (7) international monitors were 
accorded appropriate access to polling sites.

      limitations on transfer of military equipment to east timor

    Sec. 566. In any agreement for the sale, transfer, or licensing of 
any lethal equipment or helicopter for Indonesia entered into by the 
United States pursuant to the authority of this Act or any other Act, 
the agreement shall state that such items will not be used in East 
Timor.

   restrictions on voluntary contributions to united nations agencies

    Sec. 567. (a) Prohibition on Voluntary Contributions for the United 
Nations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be made available to pay any voluntary contribution of the 
United States to the United Nations (including the United Nations 
Development Program) if the United Nations implements or imposes any 
taxation on any United States persons.
    (b) Certification Required for Disbursement of Funds.--None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act may be 
made available to pay any voluntary contribution of the United States 
to the United Nations (including the United Nations Development 
Program) unless the President certifies to the Congress 15 days in 
advance of such payment that the United Nations is not engaged in any 
effort to implement or impose any taxation on United States persons in 
order to raise revenue for the United Nations or any of its specialized 
agencies.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section the term ``United States 
person'' refers to--
            (1) a natural person who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or
            (2) a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity 
        organized under the United States or any State, territory, 
        possession, or district of the United States.

restrictions on assistance to countries providing sanctuary to indicted 
                             war criminals

    Sec. 568. (a) Bilateral Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by this or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing and related programs may be provided for 
any country, entity, or canton described in subsection (e).
    (b) Multilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive directors of the 
        international financial institutions to work in opposition to, 
        and vote against, any extension by such institutions of any 
        financial or technical assistance or grants of any kind to any 
        country or entity described in subsection (e).
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days before any vote in 
        an international financial institution regarding the extension 
        of financial or technical assistance or grants to any country 
        or entity described in subsection (e), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
        provide to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a written 
        justification for the proposed assistance, including an 
        explanation of the United States position regarding any such 
        vote, as well as a description of the location of the proposed 
        assistance by municipality, its purpose, and its intended 
        beneficiaries, including the names of individuals with a 
        controlling or substantial financial interest in the project.
            (3) Definition.--The term ``international financial 
        institution'' includes the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International 
        Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guaranty 
        Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (d), subsections (a) 
        and (b) shall not apply to the provisions of--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) democratization assistance;
                    (C) assistance for cross border physical 
                infrastructure projects involving activities in both a 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton and a 
                nonsanctioned contiguous country, entity, or canton, if 
                the project is primarily located in and primarily 
                benefits the nonsanctioned country, entity, or canton 
                and if the portion of the project located in the 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton is necessary only 
                to complete the project;
                    (D) small-scale assistance projects or activities 
                requested by United States Armed Forces that promote 
                good relations between such forces and the officials 
                and citizens of the areas in the United States SFOR 
                sector of Bosnia;
                    (E) implementation of the Brcko Arbitral Decision;
                    (F) lending by the international financial 
                institutions to a country or entity to support common 
                monetary and fiscal policies at the national level as 
                contemplated by the Dayton Agreement;
                    (G) direct lending to a nonsanctioned entity, or 
                lending passed on by the national government to a 
                nonsanctioned entity; or
                    (H) assistance to the International Police Task 
                Force for the training of a civilian police force.
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days after any 
        assistance described in subsection (a) is disbursed to any 
        country, entity, or canton described in subsection (e), the 
        Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of 
        the Agency for International Development, shall publish in the 
        Federal Register a justification for the proposed assistance, 
        including a description of the location of the proposed 
        assistance project by municipality, its purpose, and the 
        intended recipient of the assistance, including the names of 
        individuals, companies and their boards of directors, and 
        shareholders with controlling or substantial financial interest 
        in the companies.
    (d) Further Limitations.--
            (1) Prohibition on assistance where indicted war criminals 
        have interests.--Notwithstanding subsection (c) or subsection 
        (f), no assistance may be made available by this Act, or any 
        prior Act making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
        financing and related programs, in any country, entity, or 
        canton described in subsection (e), for a program, project, or 
        activity in which an indicted war criminal is known to have any 
        financial or material interest.
            (2) Prohibition on assistance where responsible authorities 
        fail to act.--Notwithstanding subsection (c) or subsection 
        (f)(1), no assistance (other than emergency foods, medical 
        assistance, demining assistance, or democratization assistance) 
        may be made available by this Act, or any prior Act making 
        appropriations for foreign operations, export financing and 
        related programs for any program, project, or activity in a 
        community within any country, entity, or canton described in 
        subsection (e) if authorities within that community are failing 
        to arrest and transfer or arrange for the surrender and 
        transfer to the Tribunal of all persons within their community 
        who have been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (e) Sanctioned Country, Entity, or Canton.--A sanctioned country, 
entity, or canton described in this section is one whose competent 
authorities have failed, as determined by the Secretary of State, to 
take necessary and significant steps to apprehend and transfer to the 
Tribunal all persons who have been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (f) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Secretary of State may waive the application of subsection (a) 
        with respect to specified bilateral programs or projects, or 
        subsection (b) with respect to specified international 
        financial institution programs or projects, in a sanctioned 
        country, entity, or canton upon providing a written 
        determination to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations 
        of the House of Representatives that such assistance directly 
        supports the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and its 
        Annexes, which include the obligation to apprehend and transfer 
        indicted war criminals to the Tribunal; and
            (2) Limited waiver with respect to brcko.--The Secretary of 
        State may only waive the application of subsection (a), 
        subsection (b), or subsection (d)(2) with respect to any 
        project of assistance for Brcko--
                    (A) upon the transmittal of a written determination 
                described in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) until the international arbitration panel 
                determines the status of Brcko.
            (3) Limited waiver with respect to banja luka.--The 
        Secretary of State may only waive the application of subsection 
        (a), subsection (b), or subsection (d)(2) with respect to any 
        project of assistance for Banja Luka--
                    (A) upon the transmittal of a written determination 
                described in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) until a date which is 30 days after the date of 
                parliamentary elections in the Bosnian-Serb entity 
                which are currently scheduled for September 1998.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the date of any written 
determination under paragraphs (f)(1), (2) or (3), the Secretary of 
State shall submit a report to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations of the 
House of Representatives regarding the status of efforts to secure the 
voluntary surrender or apprehension and transfer of persons indicted by 
the Tribunal, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, and outlining 
obstacles to achieving this goal.
    (h) Termination of Sanctions.--The sanctions imposed pursuant to 
subsections (a), (b), and (d)(2) with respect to a country, entity, or 
canton shall cease to apply only if the Secretary of State determines 
and certifies to Congress that the authorities of that country, entity, 
or canton have apprehended and transferred to the Tribunal all persons 
who have been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (i) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) Country.--The term ``country'' means Bosnia-
        Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia-Montenegro (Federal Republic 
        of Yugoslavia).
            (2) Entity.--The term ``entity'' refers to the Federation 
        of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska.
            (3) Canton.--The term ``canton'' means the administrative 
        units in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
            (4) Dayton agreement.--The term ``Dayton Agreement'' means 
        the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and 
        Herzegovina, together with annexes relating thereto, done at 
        Dayton, November 10 through 16, 1995.
            (5) Tribunal.--The term ``Tribunal'' means the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
    (j) Role of Human Rights Organizations and Government Agencies.--In 
carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of State, the Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development, and the executive 
directors of the international financial institutions shall consult 
with representatives of human rights organizations and all government 
agencies with relevant information to help prevent publicly indicted 
war criminals from benefitting from any financial or technical 
assistance or grants or loans provided to or in any country, entity, or 
canton described in subsection (e).

         excess defense articles for certain european countries

    Sec. 569. Section 105 of Public Law 104-164 (110 Stat. 1427) is 
amended by striking ``1996 and 1997'' and inserting ``1999 and 2000''.

additional requirements relating to stockpiling of defense articles for 
                           foreign countries

    Sec. 570. (a) Value of Additions to Stockpiles.--Section 
514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking the word ``and'' after ``1997'', 
and inserting in lieu thereof a comma and inserting before the period 
at the end the following: ``and $340,000,000 for fiscal year 1999''.
    (b) Requirements Relating to the Republic of Korea and Thailand.--
Section 514(b)(2)(B) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(B)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ``Of the amount specified in 
subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 1999, not more than $320,000,000 may 
be made available for stockpiles in the Republic of Korea and not more 
than $20,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in Thailand.''.

 to prohibit foreign assistance to the government of russia should it 
 enact laws which would discriminate against minority religious faiths 
                       in the russian federation

    Sec. 571. (a) None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be 
made available for the Government of Russian Federation, after 180 days 
from the date of enactment of this Act, unless the President determines 
and certifies in writing to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the Government of the 
Russian Federation has implemented no statute, executive order, 
regulation or similar government action that would discriminate, or 
would have as its principal effect discrimination, against religious 
groups or religious communities in the Russian Federation in violation 
of accepted international agreements on human rights and religious 
freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a party.

                        greenhouse gas emissions

    Sec. 572. (a) Funds made available in this Act to support programs 
or activities promoting country participation in the Framework 
Convention on Climate Change or climate change activities in the 
energy, industry, urban, land use (primarily forestry, biodiversity and 
agriculture) sectors shall only be made available subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) The President shall provide a detailed account of all Federal 
agency obligations and expenditures for climate change programs and 
activities, domestic and international, for fiscal year 1998, planned 
obligations for such activities in fiscal year 1999, and any plan for 
programs thereafter related to the implementation or the furtherance of 
protocols pursuant to, or related to negotiations to amend the 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) in conjunction with the 
President's submission of the Budget of the United States Government 
for Fiscal Year 2000: Provided, That such report shall include an 
accounting of expenditures by agency with each agency identifying 
climate change activities and associated costs by line item as 
presented in the President's Budget Appendix.

withholding assistance to countries violating united nations sanctions 
                             against libya

    Sec. 573. (a) Withholding of Assistance.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), whenever the President determines and certifies to 
Congress that the government of any country is violating any sanction 
against Libya imposed pursuant to United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 731, 748, or 883, then not less than 5 percent of the funds 
allocated for the country under section 653(a) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 out of appropriations in this Act shall be 
withheld from obligation and expenditure for that country.
    (b) Exception.--The requirement to withhold funds under subsection 
(a) shall not apply to funds appropriated in this Act for allocation 
under section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
development assistance or for humanitarian assistance.
    (c) Waiver.--Funds may be provided for a country without regard to 
subsection (a) if the President determines that to do so is in the 
national security interest of the United States.

       aid to the government of the democratic republic of congo

    Sec. 574. Prohibition on Assistance to the Democratic Republic of 
Congo. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be provided to the central Government of the Democratic 
Republic of Congo until such time as the President reports in writing 
to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Majority Leader of 
the Senate, the International Relations Committee of the House, the 
Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate, the Appropriations Committee 
of the Senate, and the Appropriations Committee of the House that the 
central Government of the Democratic Republic of Congo is--
            (1) investigating and prosecuting those responsible for 
        civilian massacres, serious human rights violations, or other 
        atrocities committed in the Congo; and
            (2) implementing a credible democratic transition program, 
        which includes--
                    (A) the establishment of an independent electoral 
                commission;
                    (B) the release of individuals detained or 
                imprisoned for their political views;
                    (C) the maintenance of a conducive environment for 
                the free exchange of political views, including the 
                freedoms of association, speech, and press; and
                    (D) the conduct of free and fair national elections 
                for both the legislative and executive branches of 
                government.
    (b) Notwithstanding the aforementioned restrictions, the President 
may provide electoral assistance to the central Government of the 
Democratic Republic of Congo for any fiscal year if the President 
certifies to the International Relations Committee of the House, the 
Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate, the Appropriations Committee 
of the Senate, and the Appropriations Committee of the House that the 
central Government of the Democratic Republic of Congo has taken steps 
to ensure that conditions in subsections (a)(2) (A), (B), and (C) have 
been met.

                 export financing transfer authorities

    Sec. 575. Not to exceed 5 per centum of any appropriation other 
than for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 1999 
for programs under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs and activities 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 25 per centum by any such transfer: Provided, 
That the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

           new independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 576. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'' shall be made available for assistance for a Government of the 
New Independent States of the former Soviet Union--
            (1) unless that Government is making progress in 
        implementing comprehensive economic reforms based on market 
        principles, private ownership, respect for commercial 
        contracts, and equitable treatment of foreign private 
        investment; and
            (2) if that Government applies or transfers United States 
        assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
        seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or 
        ventures.
Assistance may be furnished without regard to this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be 
made available for assistance for a Government of the New Independent 
States of the former Soviet Union if that government directs any action 
in violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of 
any other new independent state, such as those violations included in 
the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made available 
without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States.
    (c) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be 
made available for any state to enhance its military capability: 
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to demilitarization, 
demining or nonproliferation programs.
    (d) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f) Funds appropriated in this or prior appropriations Acts that 
are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund in the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union may be deposited by such 
Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such 
funds by the Fund for program purposes. The Fund may retain for such 
program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without returning 
such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without further 
appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for Enterprise 
Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for projects and activities.
    (g) In issuing new task orders, entering into contracts, or making 
grants, with funds appropriated in this Act or prior appropriations 
Acts under the heading ``Assistance for the New Independent States of 
the Former Soviet Union'' for projects or activities that have as one 
of their primary purposes the fostering of private sector development, 
the Coordinator for United States Assistance to the New Independent 
States and the implementing agency shall encourage the participation of 
and give significant weight to contractors and grantees who propose 
investing a significant amount of their own resources (including 
volunteer services and in-kind contributions) in such projects and 
activities.
    (h) None of the funds appropriated for assistance for the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union in this or any other Act 
shall be made available for Russia until the Secretary of State 
certifies that agreement has been reached with the Government of Russia 
that such assistance is not taxed nor is subject to taxation.

                  publication of certain notifications

    Sec. 577. Section 516(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is 
amended by adding the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Publication.--Each notice required by this subsection 
        shall be published in the Federal Register as soon as 
        practicable after it has been provided to the congressional 
        committees specified in section 634A(a). In any case in which 
        the President concludes that such publication would be harmful 
        to the national security of the United States, only a statement 
        that a notice has been provided pursuant to this subsection to 
        such committees shall be published.''.

            reimbursement requirements for foreign students

    Sec. 578. Limited Waiver of Reimbursement Requirement for Certain 
Foreign Students. Section 214(l)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(l)(1)), as added by section 625(a)(1) of the Illegal 
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 
3009-699), is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by redesignating clauses (i) and 
        (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively;
            (3) by striking ``(l)(1)'' and inserting ``(l)(1)(A)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) The Attorney General shall waive the application of 
subparagraph (A)(ii) for an alien seeking to pursue a course of study 
in a public secondary school served by a local educational agency (as 
defined in section 14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8801)) if the agency determines and certifies to the 
Attorney General that such waiver will promote the educational interest 
of the agency and will not impose an undue financial burden on the 
agency.''.

   national advisory council on international monetary and financial 
                                policies

    Sec. 579. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
annual report required by subsection 1701(a) of the International 
Financial Institutions Act, as amended (Public Law 95-118, 22 U.S.C. 
262r), shall comprise--
            (1) an assessment of the effectiveness of the major 
        policies and operations of the international financial 
        institutions;
            (2) the major issues affecting United States participation;
            (3) the major developments in the past year;
            (4) the prospects for the coming year;
            (5) the progress made and steps taken to achieve United 
        States policy goals (including major policy goals embodied in 
        current law) with respect to the international financial 
        institutions; and
            (6) such data and explanations concerning the 
        effectiveness, operations, and policies of the international 
        financial institutions, such recommendations concerning the 
        international financial institutions, and such other data and 
        material as the Chairman may deem appropriate.
    (b) The requirements of Sections 1602(e), 1603(c), 1604(c), and 
1701(b) of the International Financial Institutions Act, as amended 
(Public Law 95-118, 22 U.S.C. 262p-1, 262p-2, 262p-3 and 262(r)), 
Section 2018(c) of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1986, as 
amended (Public Law 99-570, 22 U.S.C. 2291 note), Section 407(c) of the 
Foreign Debt Reserving Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-240, 22 U.S.C. 2291 
note), Section 14(c) of the Inter-American Development Bank Act, as 
amended (Public Law 86-147, 22 U.S.C. 283j-1(c)), and Section 1002 of 
the Freedom for Russia and Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open 
Markets Support Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-511) (22 U.S.C. 286ll(b)) 
shall no longer apply to the contents of such annual reports.

         limitation on assistance to the palestinian authority

    Sec. 580. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or expended with 
respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate that 
waiving such prohibition is important to the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of six 
months at a time and shall not apply beyond twelve months after 
enactment of this Act.

  sense of senate regarding united states citizens held in prisons in 
                                  peru

    Sec. 581. It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) as a signatory of the International Covenant on Civil 
        and Political Rights, the Government of Peru is obligated to 
        grant prisoners timely legal proceedings pursuant to Article 9 
        of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 
        which requires that ``anyone arrested or detained on a criminal 
        charge shall be brought promptly before a judge or other 
        officer authorized by law to exercise judicial power and shall 
        be entitled to trial within a reasonable time or release'', and 
        that ``any one who is deprived of his liberty by arrest or 
        detention shall be entitled to take proceedings before a court, 
        in order that that court may decide without delay on the 
        lawfulness of his detention and order his release if the 
        detention is not lawful'';
            (2) the Government of Peru should respect the rights of 
        prisoners to timely legal procedures, including the rights of 
        all United States citizens held in prisons in that country; and
            (3) the Government of Peru should take all necessary steps 
        to ensure that any United States citizen charged with 
        committing a crime in that country is accorded open and fair 
        proceedings in a civilian court.

report on training provided to foreign military personnel in the united 
                                 states

    Sec. 582. (a) Not later than January 31, 1999, the Inspector 
General of the Department of Defense and the Inspector General of the 
Department of State shall jointly submit to Congress a report 
describing the following:
            (1) The training provided to foreign military personnel 
        within the United States under any programs administered by the 
        Department of Defense or the Department of State during fiscal 
        year 1998.
            (2) The training provided (including the training proposed 
        to be provided) to such personnel within the United States 
        under such programs during fiscal year 1999.
    (b) For each case of training covered by the report under 
subsection (a), the report shall include--
            (1) the location of the training;
            (2) the duration of the training;
            (3) the number of foreign military personnel provided the 
        training by country, including the units of operation of such 
        personnel;
            (4) the cost of the training;
            (5) the purpose and nature of the training; and
            (6) an analysis of the manner and the extent to which the 
        training meets or conflicts with the foreign policy objectives 
        of the United States, including the furtherance of democracy 
        and civilian control of the military and the promotion of human 
        rights.

sense of the congress regarding international cooperation in recovering 
  children abducted in the united states and taken to other countries.

    Sec. 583. (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) many children in the United States have been abducted 
        by family members who are foreign nationals and living in 
        foreign countries;
            (2) children who have been abducted by an estranged father 
        are very rarely returned, through legal remedies, from 
        countries that only recognize the custody rights of the father;
            (3) there are at least 140 cases that need to be resolved 
        in which children have been abducted by family members and 
        taken to foreign countries;
            (4) although the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
        International Child Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 
        1980, has made progress in aiding the return of abducted 
        children, the Convention does not address the criminal aspects 
        of child abduction, and there is a need to reach agreements 
        regarding child abduction with countries that are not parties 
        to the Convention; and
            (5) decisions on awarding custody of children should be 
        made in the children's best interest, and persons who violate 
        laws of the United States by abducting their children should 
        not be rewarded by being granted custody of those children.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that 
the United States Government should promote international cooperation 
in working to resolve those cases in which children in the United 
States are abducted by family members who are foreign nationals and 
taken to foreign countries, and in seeing that justice is served by 
holding accountable the abductors for violations of criminal law.

  support for peaceful economic and political transition in indonesia

    Sec. 584. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Indonesia is the World's 4th most populous nation, with 
        a population in excess of 200,000,000 people.
            (2) Since 1997, political, economic, and social turmoil in 
        Indonesia has escalated.
            (3) Indonesia is comprised of more than 13,000 islands 
        located between the mainland of Southeast Asia and Australia. 
        Indonesia occupies an important strategic location, straddling 
        vital sea lanes for communication and commercial transportation 
        including all or part of every major sea route between the 
        Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean, more than 50 percent of all 
        international shipping trade, and sea lines of communication 
        used by the United States Pacific Command to support operations 
        in the Persian Gulf.
            (4) Indonesia has been an important ally of the United 
        States, has made vital contributions to the maintenance of 
        regional peace and stability through its leading role in the 
        Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the Asia 
        Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC), and has promoted 
        United States economic, political, and security interests in 
        Asia.
            (5) In the 25 years before the onset of the recent 
        financial crisis in Asia, the economy of Indonesia grew at an 
        average rate of 7 percent per year.
            (6) Since July 1997, the Indonesian rupiah has lost 70 
        percent of its value, and the Indonesian economy is now at a 
        near standstill characterized by inflation, tight liquidity, 
        and rising unemployment.
            (7) Indonesia has also faced a severe drought and massive 
        fires in the past year which have adversely affected its 
        ability to produce sufficient food to meet its needs.
            (8) As a consequence of this economic instability and the 
        drought and fires, as many as 100,000,000 people in Indonesia 
        may experience food shortages, malnutrition, and possible 
        starvation as a result of being unable to purchase food. These 
        conditions increase the potential for widespread social unrest 
        in Indonesia.
            (9) Following the abdication of Indonesia President Suharto 
        in May 1998, Indonesia is in the midst of a profound political 
        transition. The current president of Indonesia, B.J. Habibie, 
        has called for new parliamentary elections in mid-1999, allowed 
        the formation of new political parties, and pledged to resolve 
        the role of the military in Indonesian society.
            (10) The Government of Indonesia has taken several 
        important steps toward political reform and support of 
        democratic institutions, including support for freedom of 
        expression, release of political prisoners, formation of 
        political parties and trade unions, preparations for new 
        elections, removal of ethnic designations from identity cards, 
        and commitments to legal and civil service reforms which will 
        increase economic and legal transparency and reduce corruption.
            (11) To address the food shortages in Indonesia, the United 
        States Government has made more than 230,000 tons of food 
        available to Indonesia this year through grants and so-called 
        ``soft'' loans and has pledged support for additional wheat and 
        food to meet emergency needs in Indonesia.
            (12) United States national security interests are well-
        served by political stability in Indonesia and by friendly 
        relations between the United States and Indonesia.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the decision of the Clinton Administration to make 
        available at least 1,500,000 tons of wheat, wheat products, and 
        rice for distribution to the most needy and vulnerable 
        Indonesians is vital to the well-being of all Indonesians;
            (2) the Clinton Administration should work with the World 
        Food Program and nongovernmental organizations to design 
        programs to make the most effective use of food donations in 
        Indonesia and to expedite delivery of food assistance in order 
        to reach those in Indonesia most in need;
            (3) the Clinton Administration should adopt a more active 
        approach in support of democratic institutions and processes in 
        Indonesia and provide assistance for continued economic and 
        political development in Indonesia, including--
                    (A) support for humanitarian programs aimed at 
                preventing famine, meeting the needs of the Indonesian 
                people, and inculcating social stability;
                    (B) leading a multinational effort (including the 
                active participation of Japan, the nations of Europe, 
                and other nations) to assist the programs referred to 
                in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) calling on donor nations and humanitarian and 
                food aid programs to make additional efforts to meet 
                the needs of Indonesia and its people while laying the 
                groundwork for a more open and participatory society in 
                Indonesia;
                    (D) working with international financial 
                institutions to recapitalize and reform the banking 
                system, restructure corporate debt, and introduce 
                economic and legal transparency in Indonesia;
                    (E) urging the Government of Indonesia to remove, 
                to the maximum extent possible, barriers to trade and 
                investment which impede economic recovery in Indonesia, 
                including tariffs, quotas, export taxes, nontariff 
                barriers, and prohibitions against foreign ownership 
                and investment;
                    (F) urging the Government of Indonesia to--
                            (i) recognize the importance of the 
                        participation of all Indonesians, including 
                        ethnic and religious minorities, in the 
                        political and economic life of Indonesia;
                            (ii) take appropriate action to assure the 
                        support and protection of minority 
                        participation in the political, social, and 
                        economic life of Indonesia; and
                            (iii) release individuals detained or 
                        imprisoned for their political views;
                    (G) support for efforts by the Government of 
                Indonesia to cast a wide social safety net in order to 
                provide relief to the neediest Indonesians and to 
                restore hope to those Indonesians who have been harmed 
                by the economic crisis in Indonesia;
                    (H) support for efforts to build democracy in 
                Indonesia in order to strengthen political 
                participation and the development of legitimate 
                democratic processes and the rule of law in Indonesia, 
                including support for organizations, such as the Asia 
                Foundation and the National Endowment for Democracy, 
                which can provide technical assistance in developing 
                and strengthening democratic political institutions and 
                processes in Indonesia;
                    (I) calling on the Government of Indonesia to 
                repeal all laws and regulations that discriminate on 
                the basis of religion or ethnicity and to ensure that 
                all new laws are in keeping with international 
                standards on human rights; and
                    (J) calling on the Government of Indonesia to 
                establish, announce publicly, and adhere to a clear 
                timeline for parliamentary elections in Indonesia.
    (c) Report.--(1) Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress 
a report containing the following:
            (A) A description and assessment of the actions taken by 
        the Government of the United States to work with the Government 
        of Indonesia to further the objectives referred to in 
        subsection (b)(3).
            (B) A description and assessment of the actions taken by 
        the Government of Indonesia to further such objectives.
            (C) An evaluation of the implications of the matters 
        described and assessed under subparagraphs (A) and (B), and any 
        other appropriate matters, for relations between the United 
        States and Indonesia.
    (2) The report under this subsection shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

          condemning ethnic violence in indonesia in may 1998

    Sec. 585. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In May 1998, more than 1,200 people died in Indonesia 
        as a result of riots, targeted attacks, and violence in 
        Indonesia. According to numerous reports by human rights 
        groups, United Nations officials, and the press, ethnic Chinese 
        in Indonesia were specifically targeted in the riots for 
        attacks which included acts of brutality, looting, arson, and 
        rape.
            (2) Credible reports indicate that, between May 13 and May 
        15, 1998, at least 150 Chinese women and girls, some as young 
        as 9 years of age, were systematically raped as part of a 
        campaign of racial violence in Indonesia, and 20 of these women 
        subsequently died from injuries incurred during these rapes.
            (3) Credible evidence indicates that these rapes were the 
        result of a systematic and organized operation and may well 
        have continued to the present time.
            (4) Indonesia President Habibie has stated that he believes 
        the riots and rapes to be ``the most inhuman acts in the 
        history of the nation'', that they were ``criminal'' acts, and 
        that ``we will not accept it, we will not let it happen 
        again.''.
            (5) Indonesian human rights groups have asserted that the 
        Indonesia Government failed to take action necessary to control 
        the riots, violence, and rapes directed against ethnic Chinese 
        in Indonesia and that some elements of the Indonesia military 
        may have participated in such acts.
            (6) The Executive Director of the United Nations 
        Development Fund for Women has stated that the attacks were an 
        ``organized reaction to a crisis and culprits must be brought 
        to trial'' and that the systematic use of rape in the riots 
        ``is totally unacceptable . . . and even more disturbing than 
        rape war crimes, as Indonesia was not at war with another 
        country but caught in its own internal crisis''.
            (7) The Indonesia Government has established the Joint 
        National Fact Finding Team to investigate the violence and 
        allegations of gang rapes, but there are allegations that the 
        investigation is moving slowly and that the Team lacks the 
        authority necessary to carry out an appropriate investigation.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the mistreatment of ethnic Chinese in Indonesia and the 
        criminal acts carried out against them during the May 1998 
        riots in Indonesia is deplorable and condemned;
            (2) a complete, full, and fair investigation of such 
        criminal acts should be completed by the earliest possible 
        date, and those identified as responsible for perpetrating such 
        criminal acts should be brought to justice;
            (3) the investigation by the Government of Indonesia, 
        through its Military Honor Council, of those members of the 
        armed forces of Indonesia suspected of possible involvement in 
        the May 1998 riots, and of any member of the armed forces of 
        Indonesia who may have participated in criminal acts against 
        the people of Indonesia during the riots, is commended and 
        should be supported;
            (4) the Government of Indonesia should take action to 
        assure--
                    (A) the full observance of the human rights of the 
                ethnic Chinese in Indonesia and of all other minority 
                groups in Indonesia;
                    (B) the implementation of appropriate measures to 
                prevent ethnic-related violence and rapes in Indonesia 
                and to safeguard the physical safety of the ethnic 
                Chinese community in Indonesia;
                    (C) prompt follow through on its announced 
                intention to provide damage loans to help rebuild 
                businesses and homes for those who suffered losses in 
                the riots; and
                    (D) the provision of just compensation for victims 
                of the rape and violence that occurred during the May 
                1998 riots in Indonesia, including medical care;
            (5) the Clinton Administration and the United Nations 
        should provide support and assistance to the Government of 
        Indonesia, and to nongovernmental organizations, in the 
        investigations into the May 1998 riots in Indonesia in order to 
        expedite such investigations; and
            (6) Indonesia should ratify the United Nations Convention 
        on Racial Discrimination, Torture, and Human Rights.
    (c) Support For Investigations.--Of the amounts appropriated by 
this Act for Indonesia, the Secretary of State, after consultation with 
Congress, shall make available such funds as the Secretary considers 
appropriate in order to provide support and technical assistance to the 
Government of Indonesia, and to independent nongovernmental 
organizations, for purposes of conducting full, fair, and impartial 
investigations into the allegations surrounding the riots, violence, 
and rape of ethnic Chinese in Indonesia in May 1998.
    (d) Report.--(1) Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress 
a report containing the following:
            (A) An assessment of--
                    (i) whether or not there was a systematic and 
                organized campaign of violence, including the use of 
                rape, against the ethnic Chinese community in Indonesia 
                during the May 1998 riots in Indonesia; and
                    (ii) the level and degree of participation, if any, 
                of members of the Government or armed forces of 
                Indonesia in the riots.
            (B) An assessment of the adequacy of the actions taken by 
        the Government of Indonesia to investigate the May 1998 riots 
        in Indonesia, bring the perpetrators of the riots to justice, 
        and ensure that similar riots do not recur.
            (C) An evaluation of the implications of the matters 
        assessed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) for relations between 
        the United States and Indonesia.
    (2) The report under this subsection shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 586. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical 
support, training, consulting services, or any other form of assistance 
to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation or any similar 
organization.

                   trafficking in women and children

    Sec. 587. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney 
General and appropriate nongovernmental organizations, shall--
            (1) develop curricula and conduct training for United 
        States consular officers on the prevalence and risks of 
        trafficking in women and children, and the rights of victims of 
        such trafficking; and
            (2) develop and disseminate to aliens seeking to obtain 
        visas written materials describing the potential risks of 
        trafficking, including--
                    (A) information as to the rights of victims in the 
                United States of trafficking in women and children, 
                including legal and civil rights in labor, marriage, 
                and for crime victims under the Violence Against Women 
                Act; and
                    (B) the names of support and advocacy organizations 
                in the United States.

sense of congress concerning the murder of four american chruchwomen in 
                              el salvador

    Sec. 588. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings--
            (1) the December 2, 1980 brutal assault and murder of four 
        American churchwomen by members of the Salvadoran National 
        Guard was covered up and never fully investigated;
            (2) on July 22 and July 23, 1998, Salvadoran authorities 
        granted three of the National Guardsmen convicted of the crimes 
        early release from prison;
            (3) the United Nations Truth Commission for El Salvador 
        determined in 1993 that there was sufficient evidence that the 
        Guardsmen were acting on orders from their superiors;
            (4) in March 1998, four of the convicted Guardsmen 
        confessed that they acted after receiving orders from their 
        superiors;
            (5) recently declassified documents from the State 
        Department show that United States Government officials were 
        aware of information suggesting the involvement of superior 
        officers in the murders;
            (6) United States officials granted permanent residence to 
        a former Salvadoran military official involved in the cover-up 
        of the murders, enabling him to remain in Florida; and
            (7) despite the fact that the murders occurred over 17 
        years ago, the families of the four victims continue to seek 
        the disclosure of information relevant to the murders.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) information relevant to the murders should be made 
        public to the fullest extent possible;
            (2) the Secretary of State and the Department of State are 
        to be commended for fully releasing information regarding the 
        murders to the victims' families and to the American public, in 
        prompt response to congressional requests;
            (3) the President should order all other Federal agencies 
        and departments that possess relevant information to make every 
        effort to declassify and release to the victims' families 
        relevant information as expeditiously as possible;
            (4) in making determinations concerning the 
        declassification and release of relevant information, the 
        Federal agencies and departments should presume in favor of 
        releasing, rather than of withholding, such information; and
            (5) the President should direct the Attorney General to 
        review the circumstances under which individuals involved in 
        either the murders or the cover-up of the murders obtained 
        residence in the United States, and the Attorney General should 
        submit a report to the Congress on the results of such review 
        not later than January 1, 1999.

   report on all united states military training provided to foreign 
                           military personnel

    Sec. 589. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
shall jointly provide to the Congress by January 31, 1999, a report on 
all overseas military training provided to foreign military personnel 
under programs administered by the Department of Defense and the 
Department of State during fiscal years 1998 and 1999, including those 
proposed for fiscal year 1999. This report shall include, for each such 
military training activity, the foreign policy justification and 
purpose for the training activity, the cost of the training activity, 
the number of foreign students trained and their units of operation, 
and the location of the training. In addition, this report shall also 
include, with respect to United States personnel, the operational 
benefits to United States forces derived from each such training 
activity and the United States military units involved in each such 
training activity. This report may include a classified annex if deemed 
necessary and appropriate.
    (b) For purposes of this section a report to Congress shall be 
deemed to mean a report to the Appropriations and Foreign Relations 
Committees of the Senate and the Appropriations and International 
Relations Committees of the House.

    sense of congress regarding the trial in the netherlands of the 
         suspects indicted in the bombing of pan am flight 103

    Sec. 590. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On December 21, 1988, 270 people, including 189 United 
        States citizens, were killed in a terrorist bombing on Pan Am 
        Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.
            (2) Britain and the United States indicted 2 Libyan 
        intelligence agents--Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa 
        Fhimah--in 1991 and sought their extradition from Libya to the 
        United States or the United Kingdom to stand trial for this 
        heinous terrorist act.
            (3) The United Nations Security Council called for the 
        extradition of the suspects in Security Council Resolution 731 
        and imposed sanctions on Libya in Security Council Resolutions 
        748 and 883 because Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Qadaffi, 
        refused to transfer the suspects to either the United States or 
        the United Kingdom to stand trial.
            (4) The sanctions in Security Council Resolutions 748 and 
        883 include a worldwide ban on Libya's national airline, a ban 
        on flights into and out of Libya by other nations' airlines, a 
        prohibition on supplying arms, airplane parts, and certain oil 
        equipment to Libya, and a freeze on Libyan government funds in 
        other countries.
            (5) Colonel Qaddafi has continually refused to extradite 
        the suspects to either the United States or the United Kingdom 
        and has insisted that he will only transfer the suspects to a 
        third and neutral country to stand trial.
            (6) On August 24, 1998, the United States and the United 
        Kingdom proposed that Colonel Qadaffi transfer the suspects to 
        the Netherlands, where they would stand trial before a Scottish 
        court, under Scottish law, and with a panel of Scottish judges.
            (7) The United States-United Kingdom proposal is consistent 
        with those previously endorsed by the Organization of African 
        Unity, the League of Arab States, the Non-Aligned Movement, and 
        the Islamic Conference.
            (8) The United Nations Security Council endorsed the United 
        States-United Kingdom proposal on August 27, 1998, in United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 1192.
            (9) The United States Government has stated that this 
        proposal is nonnegotiable and has called on Colonel Qadaffi to 
        respond promptly, positively, and unequivocally to this 
        proposal by ensuring the timely appearance of the two accused 
        individuals in the Netherlands for trial before the Scottish 
        court.
            (10) The United States Government has called on Libya to 
        ensure the production of evidence, including the presence of 
        witnesses before the court, and to comply fully with all the 
        requirements of the United Nations Security Council 
        resolutions.
            (11) Secretary of State Albright has said that the United 
        States will urge a multilateral oil embargo against Libya in 
        the United Nations Security Council if Colonel Muammar Qadaffi 
        does not transfer the suspects to the Netherlands to stand 
        trial.
            (12) The United Nations Security Council will convene on 
        October 30, 1998, to review sanctions imposed on Libya.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) Colonel Qadaffi should promptly transfer the indicted 
        suspects Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah to 
        the Netherlands to stand trial before the Scottish court;
            (2) the United States Government should remain firm in its 
        commitment not to negotiate with Colonel Qadaffi on any of the 
        details of the proposal approved by the United Nations in 
        United Nations Security Council Resolution 1192; and
            (3) if Colonel Qadaffi does not transfer the indicted 
        suspects Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah to 
        the Netherlands by October 29, 1998, the United States 
        Permanent Representative to the United Nations should--
                    (A) introduce a resolution in the United Nations 
                Security Council to impose a multilateral oil embargo 
                against Libya;
                    (B) actively promote adoption of the resolution by 
                the United Nations Security Council; and
                    (C) assure that a vote will occur in the United 
                Nations Security Council on such a resolution.

                   development assistance in nigeria

    Sec. 591. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The bilateral development assistance program in Nigeria 
        has been insufficiently funded and staffed, and the United 
        States has missed opportunities to promote democracy and good 
        governance as a result.
            (2) The recent political upheaval in Nigeria necessitates a 
        new strategy for United States bilateral assistance program in 
        that country that is focused on promoting a transition to 
        democracy.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President, acting through the United States Agency for International 
Development, should--
            (1) develop a new strategy for United States bilateral 
        assistance for Nigeria that is focused on the development of 
        civil society and the rule of law and that involves a broad 
        cross-section of Nigerian society but does not provide for any 
        direct assistance to the Government of Nigeria, other than 
        humanitarian assistance, unless and until that country 
        successfully completes a transition to civilian, democratic 
        rule;
            (2) increase the number of United States personnel at such 
        Agency's office in Lagos, Nigeria, from within the current, 
        overall staff resources of such Agency in order for such office 
        to be sufficiently staffed to carry out paragraph (1); and
            (3) consider the placement of such Agency's personnel 
        elsewhere in Nigeria.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President, acting through the United States Agency for 
International Development, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations of the House of 
Representatives a report on the strategy developed under subsection 
(b)(1).

               counterterrorism cooperation certification

    Sec. 592. Section 40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2781) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``that the President'' 
        and all that follows and inserting ``unless the President 
        determines and certifies to Congress for purposes of that 
        fiscal year that the government of the country is cooperating 
        fully with the United States, or is taking adequate actions on 
        its own, to help achieve United States antiterrorism 
        objectives.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (e);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a), as so amended, the 
        following new subsections (b), (c), and (d):
    ``(b) Requirement for Continuing Cooperation.--(1) Notwithstanding 
the submittal of a certification with respect to a country for purposes 
of a fiscal year under subsection (a), the prohibition in that 
subsection shall apply to the country for the remainder of that fiscal 
year if the President determines and certifies to Congress that the 
government of the country has not continued to cooperate fully with 
United States, or to take adequate actions on its own, to help achieve 
United States antiterrorism objectives.
    ``(2) A certification under paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
date of its submittal to Congress.
    ``(c) Schedule for Certifications.--(1) The President shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, submit a certification with respect to a 
country for purposes of a fiscal year under subsection (a) not later 
than September 1 of the year in which that fiscal year begins.
    ``(2) The President may submit a certification with respect to a 
county under subsection (a) at any time after the date otherwise 
specified in paragraph (1) if the President determines that 
circumstances warrant the submittal of the certification at such later 
date.
    ``(d) Considerations for Certifications.--In making a determination 
with respect to the government of a country under subsection (a) or 
subsection (b), the President shall consider--
            ``(1) the government's record of--
                    ``(A) apprehending, bringing to trial, convicting, 
                and punishing terrorists in areas under its 
                jurisdiction;
                    ``(B) taking actions to dismantle terrorist 
                organizations in areas under its jurisdiction and to 
                cut off their sources of funds;
                    ``(C) condemning terrorist actions and the groups 
                that conduct and sponsor them;
                    ``(D) refusing to bargain with or make concessions 
                to terrorist organizations;
                    ``(E) isolating and applying pressure on states 
                that sponsor and support terrorism to force such states 
                to terminate their support for terrorism;
                    ``(F) assisting the United States in efforts to 
                apprehend terrorists who have targeted United States 
                nationals and interests;
                    ``(G) sharing information and evidence with United 
                States law enforcement agencies during the 
                investigation of terrorist attacks against United 
                States nationals and interests;
                    ``(H) extraditing to the United States individuals 
                in its custody who are suspected of participating in 
                the planning, funding, or conduct of terrorist attacks 
                against United States nationals and interests; and
                    ``(I) sharing intelligence with the United States 
                about terrorist activity, in general, and terrorist 
                activity directed against United States nationals and 
                interests, in particular; and
            ``(2) any other matters that the President considers 
        appropriate.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``national interests'' and inserting ``national security 
        interests''.

               equality for israel in the united nations

    Sec. 593. (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
``Equality for Israel at the United Nations Act of 1998''.
    (b) Effort to Promote Full Equality at the United Nations for 
Israel.--
            (1) Congressional statement.--It is the sense of the 
        Congress that--
                    (A) the United States must help promote an end to 
                the inequity experienced by Israel in the United 
                Nations whereby Israel is the only longstanding member 
                of the organization to be denied acceptance into any of 
                the United Nations region blocs, which serve as the 
                basis for participation in important activities of the 
                United Nations, including rotating membership on the 
                United Nations Security Council; and
                    (B) the United States Ambassador to the United 
                Nations should take all steps necessary to ensure 
                Israel's acceptance in the Western Europe and Others 
                Group (WEOG) regional bloc, whose membership includes 
                the non-European countries of Canada, Australia, and 
                the United States.
            (2) Reports to congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this legislation and on a semiannual 
        basis thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report which includes 
        the following information (in classified or unclassified form 
        as appropriate)--
                    (A) actions taken by representatives of the United 
                States, including the United States Ambassador to the 
                United Nations, to encourage the nations of the Western 
                Europe and Others Group (WEOG) to accept Israel into 
                their regional bloc;
                    (B) efforts undertaken by the Secretary General of 
                the United Nations to secure Israel's full and equal 
                participation in that body;
                    (C) specific responses solicited and received by 
                the Secretary of State from each of the nations of 
                Western Europe and Others Group (WEOG) on their 
                position concerning Israel's acceptance into their 
                organization; and
                    (D) other measures being undertaken, and which will 
                be undertaken, to ensure and promote Israel's full and 
                equal participation in the United Nations.

                  sanctions against serbia-montenegro

    Sec. 594. (a) Continuation of Executive Branch Sanctions.--The 
sanctions listed in subsection (b) shall remain in effect until January 
1, 2000, unless the President submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations of the House of 
Representatives a certification described in subsection (c).
    (b) Applicable Sanctions.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of the international financial 
        institutions to work in opposition to, and vote against, any 
        extension by such institutions of any financial or technical 
        assistance or grants of any kind to the government of Serbia-
        Montenegro.
            (2) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Ambassador to the Organization for Security and 
        Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to block any consensus to allow 
        the participation of Serbia-Montenegro in the OSCE or any 
        organization affiliated with the OSCE.
            (3) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representative to the United Nations to vote against any 
        resolution in the United Nations Security Council to admit 
        Serbia-Montenegro to the United Nations or any organization 
        affiliated with the United Nations, to veto any resolution to 
        allow Serbia-Montenegro to assume the United Nations' 
        membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of 
        Yugoslavia, and to take action to prevent Serbia-Montenegro 
        from assuming the seat formerly occupied by the Socialist 
        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
            (4) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization to oppose the extension of the 
        Partnership for Peace program or any other organization 
        affiliated with NATO to Serbia-Montenegro.
            (5) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representatives to the Southeast European Cooperative 
        Initiative (SECI) to oppose and to work to prevent the 
        extension of SECI membership to Serbia-Montenegro.
    (c) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a certification that--
            (1) the representatives of the successor states to the 
        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have successfully 
        negotiated the division of assets and liabilities and all other 
        succession issues following the dissolution of the Socialist 
        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
            (2) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is fully complying 
        with its obligations as a signatory to the General Framework 
        Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
            (3) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is fully 
        cooperating with and providing unrestricted access to the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, 
        including surrendering persons indicted for war crimes who are 
        within the jurisdiction of the territory of Serbia-Montenegro, 
        and with the investigations concerning the commission of war 
        crimes and crimes against humanity in Kosova;
            (4) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is implementing 
        internal democratic reforms; and
            (5) Serbian, Serbian-Montenegrin federal governmental 
        officials, and representatives of the ethnic Albanian community 
        in Kosova have agreed on, signed, and begun implementation of a 
        negotiated settlement on the future status of Kosova.
    (d) Statement of Policy.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States should not restore full diplomatic relations with Serbia-
Montenegro until the President submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations in the House of 
Representatives the certification described in subsection (c).
    (e) Exemption of Montenegro.--The sanctions described in subsection 
(b)(1) should not apply to the government of Montenegro.
    (f) Definition.--The term ``international financial institution'' 
includes the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Multilateral 
Investment Guaranty Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development.
    (g) Waiver Authority.--
            (1) The President may waive the application in whole or in 
        part, of any sanction described in subsection (b) if the 
        President certifies to the Congress that the President has 
        determined that the waiver is necessary to meet emergency 
        humanitarian needs or to achieve a negotiated settlement of the 
        conflict in Kosova that is acceptable to the parties.
            (2) Such a wavier may only be effective upon certification 
        by the President to Congress that the United States has 
        transferred and will continue to transfer (subject to adequate 
        protection of intelligence sources and methods) to the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia all 
        information it has collected in support of an indictment and 
        trial of President Slobodan Milosevic for war crimes, crimes 
        against humanity, or genocide.
            (3) In the event of a waiver, within seven days the 
        President must report the basis upon which the waiver was made 
        to the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations in the Senate, and the Permanent Select 
        Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on International 
        Relations in the House of Representatives.

   funding for the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty preparatory 
                               commission

    Sec. 595. Of the funds appropriated by this Act, or prior Acts 
making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs, not less than $28,900,000 shall be made available for 
expenses related to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty 
Preparatory Commission: Provided, That such funds may be made available 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committee on 
Appropriations.

       report on iraqi development of weapons of mass destruction

    Sec. 596. (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Iraq is continuing efforts to mask the extent of its 
        weapons of mass destruction and missile programs;
            (2) proposals to relax the current international inspection 
        regime would have potentially dangerous consequences for 
        international security; and
            (3) Iraq has demonstrated time and again that it cannot be 
        trusted to abide by international norms or by its own 
        agreements, and that the only way the international community 
        can be assured of Iraqi compliance is by ongoing inspection.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the international agencies charged with inspections in 
        Iraq--the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the 
        United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) should maintain 
        vigorous inspections, including surprise inspections, within 
        Iraq; and
            (2) the United States should oppose any efforts to ease the 
        inspections regimes on Iraq until there is clear, credible 
        evidence that the Government of Iraq is no longer seeking to 
        acquire weapons of mass destruction and the means of delivering 
        them.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit a report to Congress on the United 
States Government's assessment of Iraq's nuclear and other weapons of 
mass destruction programs and its efforts to move toward procurement of 
nuclear weapons and the means to deliver weapons of mass destruction. 
The report shall also--
            (1) assess the United States view of the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency's action team reports and other IAEA 
        efforts to monitor the extent and nature of Iraq's nuclear 
        program; and
            (2) include the United States Government's opinion on the 
        value of maintaining the ongoing inspection regime rather than 
        replacing it with a passive monitoring system.

                     sense of senate regarding iran

    Sec. 597. (a) The Senate finds that--
            (1) according to the Department of State, Iran continues to 
        support international terrorism, providing training, financing, 
        and weapons to such terrorist groups as Hizballah, Islamic 
        Jihad and Hamas;
            (2) Iran continues to oppose the Arab-Israeli peace process 
        and refuses to recognize Israel's right to exist;
            (3) Iran continues aggressively to seek weapons of mass 
        destruction and the missiles to deliver them;
            (4) it is long-standing United States policy to offer 
        official government-to-government dialogue with the Iranian 
        regime, such offers having been repeatedly rebuffed by Tehran;
            (5) more than a year after the election of President 
        Khatemi, Iranian foreign policy continues to threaten American 
        security and that of our allies in the Middle East; and
            (6) despite repeated offers and tentative steps toward 
        rapprochement with Iran by the Clinton Administration, 
        including a decision to waive sanctions under the Iran-Libya 
        Sanctions Act and the President's veto of the Iran Missile 
        Proliferation Sanctions Act, Iran has failed to reciprocate in 
        a meaningful manner.
    (b) Therefore it is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Administration should make no concessions to the 
        government of Iran unless and until that government moderates 
        its objectionable policies, including taking steps to end its 
        support of international terrorism, opposition to the Middle 
        East peace process, and the development and proliferation of 
        weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery; and
            (2) there should be no change in United States policy 
        toward Iran until there is credible and sustained evidence of a 
        change in Iranian policies.

   joint united states-canada commission on cattle, beef, and dairy 
                                products

    Sec. 598. (a) Establishment.--There is established a Joint United 
States-Canada Commission on Cattle, Beef, and Dairy Products to 
identify, and recommend means of resolving, national, regional, and 
provincial trade-distorting differences between the United States and 
Canada with respect to the production, processing, and sale of cattle, 
beef, and dairy products, with particular emphasis on--
            (1) animal health requirements;
            (2) transportation differences;
            (3) the availability of feed grains;
            (4) other market-distorting direct and indirect subsidies;
            (5) the expansion of the Northwest Pilot Project;
            (6) tariff rate quotas; and
            (7) other factors that distort trade between the United 
        States and Canada.
    (b) Composition.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of--
                    (A) 3 members representing the United States, 
                including--
                            (i) 1 member appointed by the Majority 
                        Leader of the Senate;
                            (ii) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of 
                        the House of Representatives; and
                            (iii) 1 member appointed by the Secretary 
                        of Agriculture;
                    (B) 3 members representing Canada, appointed by the 
                Government of Canada; and
                    (C) nonvoting members appointed by the Commission 
                to serve as advisers to the Commission, including 
                university faculty, State veterinarians, trade experts, 
                producers, and other members.
            (2) Appointment.--Members of the Commission shall be 
        appointed not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the first meeting of the 
Commission, the Commission shall submit a report to Congress and the 
Government of Canada that identifies, and recommends means of 
resolving, differences between the United States and Canada with 
respect to tariff rate quotas and the production, processing, and sale 
of cattle, beef, and dairy products.

sense of the senate concerning the operation of agricultural commodity 
                      foreign assistance programs

    Sec. 599. (a) It is the sense of the Senate that:
            (1) The United States Department of Agriculture should use 
        the GSM-102 credit guarantee program to provide 100 percent 
        coverage, including shipping costs, in some markets where it 
        may be temporarily necessary to encourage the export of United 
        States agricultural products.
            (2) The United States Department of Agriculture should 
        increase the amount of GSM export credit available above the 
        $5,500,000,000 minimum required by the 1996 Farm Bill (as it 
        did in the 1991/1992 period). In addition to other nations, 
        extra allocations should be made in the following amounts to--
                    (A) Pakistan--an additional $150,000,000;
                    (B) Algeria--an additional $140,000,000;
                    (C) Bulgaria--an additional $20,000,000; and
                    (D) Romania--an additional $20,000,000.
            (3) The United States Department of Agriculture should use 
        the PL-480 food assistance programs to the fullest extent 
        possible, including the allocation of assistance to Indonesia 
        and other Asian nations facing economic hardship.
            (4) Given the President's reaffirmation of a Jackson-Vanik 
        waiver for Vietnam, the United States Department of Agriculture 
        should consider Vietnam for PL-480 assistance and increased 
        GSM.

 funding for the claiborne pell institute for international relations 
                           and public policy

    Sec. 599A. That of the funds made available by prior Foreign 
Operations Appropriations Acts, not to exceed $750,000 shall be made 
available for the Claiborne Pell Institute for International Relations 
and Public Policy at Salve Regina University.

                         aid office of security

    Sec. 599B. (a) Establishment of Office.--There shall be established 
within the Office of the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development, an Office of Security. Such Office of Security shall, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, have the responsibility for 
the supervision, direction, and control of all security activities 
relating to the programs and operations of that Agency.
    (b) Transfer and Allocation of Appropriations and Personnel.--There 
are transferred to the Office of Security all security functions 
exercised by the Office of Inspector General of the Agency for 
International Development exercised before the date of enactment of 
this Act. The Administrator shall transfer from the Office of the 
Inspector General of such Agency to the Office of Security established 
by subsection (a), the personnel (including the Senior Executive 
Service position designated for the Assistant Inspector General for 
Security), assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, records, 
and unexpended balances of appropriations, and other funds held, used, 
available to, or to be made available in connection with such 
functions. Unexpended balances of appropriations, and other funds made 
available or to be made available in connection with such functions, 
shall be transferred to and merged with funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development''.
    (c) Transfer of Employees.--Any employee in the career service who 
is transferred pursuant to this section shall be placed in a position 
in the Office of Security established by subsection (a) which is 
comparable to the position the employee held in the Office of the 
Inspector General of the Agency for International Development.

  sense of congress regarding ballistic missile development by north 
                                 korea

    Sec. 599C. (a) Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) North Korea has been active in developing new 
        generations of medium-range and intermediate-range ballistic 
        missiles, including both the Nodong and Taepo Dong class 
        missiles.
            (2) North Korea is not an adherent to the Missile 
        Technology Control Regime, actively cooperates with Iran and 
        Pakistan in ballistic missile programs, and has declared its 
        intention to continue to export ballistic missile technology.
            (3) North Korea has shared technology involved in the Taepo 
        Dong I missile program with Iran, which is concurrently 
        developing the Shahab-3 intermediate-range ballistic missile.
            (4) North Korea is developing the Taepo Dong II 
        intermediate-range ballistic missile, which is expected to have 
        sufficient range to put at risk United States territories, 
        forces, and allies throughout the Asia-Pacific area.
            (5) Multistage missiles like the Taepo Dong class missile 
        can ultimately be extended to intercontinental range.
            (6) The bipartisan Commission to Assess the Ballistic 
        Missile Threat to the United States emphasized the need for the 
        United States intelligence community and United States policy 
        makers to review the methodology by which they assess foreign 
        missile programs in order to guard against surprise 
        developments with respect to such programs.
    (b) It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) North Korea should be forcefully condemned for its 
        August 31, 1998, firing of a Taepo Dong I intermediate-range 
        ballistic missile over the sovereign territory of another 
        country, specifically Japan, an event that demonstrated an 
        advanced capability for employing multistage missiles, which 
        are by nature capable of extended range, including 
        intercontinental range;
            (2) the United States should reassess its cooperative space 
        launch programs with countries that continue to assist North 
        Korea and Iran in their ballistic missile and cruise missile 
        programs;
            (3) any financial or technical assistance provided to North 
        Korea should take into account the continuing conduct by that 
        county of activities which destabilize the region, including 
        the missile firing referred to in paragraph (1), continued 
        submarine incursions into South Korea territorial waters, and 
        violations of the demilitarized zone separating North Korea and 
        South Korea;
            (4) the recommendations of the Commission to Assess the 
        Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States should be 
        incorporated into the analytical processes of the United States 
        intelligence community as soon as possible; and
            (5) the United States should accelerate cooperative theater 
        missile defense programs with Japan.

    sense of senate regarding the development by the international 
        telecommunication union of world standards for wireless 
                      telecommunications services

    Sec. 599D. (a) The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The International Telecommunication Union, an agency of 
        the United Nations, is currently developing recommendations for 
        world standards for the next generation of wireless 
        telecommunications services based on the concept of a 
        ``family'' of standards.
            (2) On June 30, 1998, the Department of State submitted 
        four proposed standards to the ITU for consideration in the 
        development of those recommendations.
            (3) Adoption of an open and inclusive set of multiple 
        standards, including all four submitted by the Department of 
        State, would enable existing systems to operate with the next 
        generation of wireless standards.
            (4) It is critical to the interest of the United States 
        that existing systems be given this ability.
    (b) It is the sense of the Senate that the Federal Communications 
Commission and appropriate executive branch agencies take all 
appropriate actions to promote development, by the ITU, of 
recommendations for digital wireless telecommunications services based 
on a family of open and inclusive multiple standards, including all 
four standards submitted by the Department of State, so as to allow 
operation of existing systems with the next generation of wireless 
standards.
    Titles I through V of this Act may be cited as the ``Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

               TITLE VI--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  funds appropriated to the president

                     fiscal year 1998 supplemental

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

                      global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Global Environment Facility (GEF), $47,500,000 to 
remain available until expended for contributions previously due.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

                      fund for special operations

    For payment to the Inter-American Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, for the United States share of the increase in resources for 
the Fund for Special Operations, $21,152,000, to remain available until 
expended for contributions previously due.

  contribution to the enterprise for americas multilateral investment 
                                  fund

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Fund, $50,000,000 to remain available until 
expended for contributions previously due.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increases in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended, $187,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for contributions previously due.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the African Development Fund, 
$5,000,000 to remain available until expended, for contributions 
previously due.

                  loans to international monetary fund

                       new arrangements to borrow

    For loans to the International Monetary Fund (Fund) under the New 
Arrangements to Borrow, the dollar equivalent of 2,462,000,000 Special 
Drawing Rights, to remain available until expended; in addition, up to 
the dollar equivalent of 4,250,000,000 Special Drawing Rights 
previously appropriated by the Act of November 30, 1983 (Public Law 98-
181), and the Act of October 23, 1962 (Public Law 87-872), for the 
General Arrangements to Borrow, may also be used for the New 
Arrangements to Borrow.

                          united states quota

    For an increase in the United States quota in the International 
Monetary Fund, the dollar equivalent of 10,622,500,000 Special Drawing 
Rights, to remain available until expended.

                         conditions and reports

    Sec. 601. Conditions for the Use of Quota Resources. (a) None of 
the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``United States 
Quota, International Monetary Fund'' may be obligated, transferred or 
made available to the International Monetary Fund until 30 days after 
the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that the major shareholders of 
the International Monetary Fund, including the United States, Japan, 
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, and 
Canada have publicly agreed to, and will seek to implement in the Fund, 
policies that provide for conditions in stand-by agreements or other 
arrangements regarding the use of Fund resources, requiring that the 
recipient country--
            (1) liberalize restrictions on trade in goods and services 
        and on investment, at a minimum consistent with the terms of 
        all international trade obligations and agreements; and
            (2) eliminate the practice or policy of government directed 
        lending on non-commercial terms or provision of market 
        distorting subsidies to favored industries, enterprises, 
        parties, or institutions.
    (b) Subsequent to the certification provided in subsection (a), in 
conjunction with the annual submission of the President's budget, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the appropriate committees on 
the implementation and enforcement of the provisions in subsection (a).
    (c) The United States shall exert its influence with the Fund and 
its members to encourage the Fund to include as part of its conditions 
of stand-by agreements or other uses of the Fund's resources that the 
recipient country take action to remove discriminatory treatment 
between foreign and domestic creditors in its debt resolution 
proceedings. The Secretary of the Treasury shall report back to the 
Congress six months after the enactment of this Act, and annually 
thereafter, on the progress in achieving this requirement.
    (d) Bankruptcy Law Reform.--The United States shall exert its 
influence with the International Monetary Fund and its members to 
encourage the International Monetary Fund to include as part of its 
conditions of assistance that the recipient country take action to 
adopt, as soon as possible, modern insolvency laws that--
            (1) emphasize reorganization of business enterprises rather 
        than liquidation whenever possible;
            (2) provide for a high degree of flexibility of action, in 
        place of rigid requirements of form or substance, together with 
        appropriate review and approval by a court and a majority of 
        the creditors involved;
            (3) include provisions to ensure that assets gathered in 
        insolvency proceedings are accounted for and put back into the 
        market stream as quickly as possible in order to maximize the 
        number of businesses that can be kept productive and increase 
        the number of jobs that can be saved; and
            (4) promote international cooperation in insolvency matters 
        by including--
                    (A) provisions set forth in the Model Law on Cross-
                Border Insolvency approved by the United Nations 
                Commission on International Trade Law, including 
                removal of discriminatory treatment between foreign and 
                domestic creditors in debt resolution proceedings; and
                    (B) other provisions appropriate for promoting such 
                cooperation.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall report back to Congress six months 
after the enactment of this Act, and annually, thereafter, on the 
progress in achieving this requirement.
    (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to create any 
private right of action with respect to the enforcement of its terms.
    Sec. 602. Transparency and Oversight. (a) Not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
certify to the appropriate committees that the Board of Executive 
Directors of the International Monetary Fund has agreed to provide 
timely access by the Comptroller General to information and documents 
relating to the Fund's operations, program and policy reviews and 
decisions regarding stand-by agreements and other uses of the Fund's 
resources.
    (b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct, and the U.S. 
Executive Director to the International Monetary Fund shall agree to--
            (1) provide any documents or information available to the 
        Director that are requested by the Comptroller General;
            (2) request from the Fund any documents or material 
        requested by the Comptroller General; and
            (3) use all necessary means to ensure all possible access 
        by the Comptroller General to the staff and operations of the 
        Fund for the purposes of conducting financial and program 
        audits.
    (c) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Comptroller General and the U.S. Executive Director of the Fund, shall 
develop and implement a plan to obtain timely public access to 
information and documents relating to the Fund's operations, programs 
and policy reviews and decisions regarding stand-by agreements and 
other uses of the Fund's resources.
    (d) No later than October 1, 1998 and, not later than March 1 of 
each year thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a 
report to the appropriate committees on the status of timely 
publication of Letters of Intent and Article IV consultation documents 
and the availability of information referred to in (c).
    Sec. 603. Advisory Commission. (a) The President shall establish an 
International Financial Institution Advisory Commission (hereafter 
``Commission'').
    (b) The Commission shall include at least five former United States 
Secretaries of the Treasury.
    (c) Within 180 days, the Commission shall report to the appropriate 
committees on the future role and responsibilities, if any, of the 
International Monetary Fund and the merit, costs and related 
implications of consolidation of the organization, management, and 
activities of the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development and the World Trade Organization.
    Sec. 604. Bretton Woods Conference. Not later than 180 days after 
the Commission reports to the appropriate committees, the President 
shall call for a conference of representatives of the governments of 
the member countries of the International Monetary Fund, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World 
Trade Organization to consider the structure, management and activities 
of the institutions, their possible merger and their capacity to 
contribute to exchange rate stability and economic growth and to 
respond effectively to financial crises.
    Sec. 605. Reports. (a) Following the extension of a stand-by 
agreement or other uses of the resources by the International Monetary 
Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the U.S. 
Executive Director of the Fund, shall submit a report to the 
appropriate committees providing the following information--
            (1) the borrower's rules and regulations dealing with 
        capitalization ratios, reserves, deposit insurance system and 
        initiatives to improve transparency of information on the 
        financial institutions and banks which may benefit from the use 
        of the Fund's resources;
            (2) the burden shared by private sector investors and 
        creditors, including commercial banks in the Group of Seven 
        Nations, in the losses which have prompted the use of the 
        Fund's resources;
            (3) the Fund's strategy, plan and timetable for completing 
        the borrower's pay back of the Fund's resources including a 
        date by which the borrower will be free from all international 
        institutional debt obligation; and
            (4) the status of efforts to upgrade the borrower's 
        national standards to meet the Basle Committee's Core 
        Principles for Effective Banking Supervision.
    (b) Following the extension of a stand-by agreement or other use of 
the Fund's resources, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the 
appropriate committees in conjunction with the annual submission of the 
President's budget, an account--
            (1) of outcomes related to the requirements of section 
        5010; and
            (2) of the direct and indirect institutional recipients of 
        such resources: Provided, That this account shall include the 
        institutions or banks indirectly supported by the Fund through 
        resources made available by the borrower's Central Bank.
    (c) Not later than 30 days after the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of 
Congress providing the information requested in paragraphs (a) and (b) 
for the countries of South Korea, Indonesia, Thailand and the 
Philippines.
    Sec. 606. Certifications. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
certify to the appropriate committees that the following conditions 
have been met--
            (1) No International Monetary Fund resources have resulted 
        in support to the semiconductor, steel, automobile, 
        shipbuilding, or textile and apparel industries in any form;
            (2) The Fund has not guaranteed nor underwritten the 
        private loans of semiconductor, steel, automobile, 
        shipbuilding, or textile and apparel manufacturers; and
            (3) Officials from the Fund and the Department of the 
        Treasury have monitored the implementation of the provisions 
        contained in stabilization programs in effect after July 1, 
        1997, and all of the conditions have either been met, or the 
        recipient government has committed itself to fulfill all of 
        these conditions according to an explicit timetable for 
        completion; which timetable has been provided to and approved 
        by the Fund and the Department of the Treasury.
    (b) Such certifications shall be made 14 days prior to the 
disbursement of any Fund resources to the borrower.
    (c) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States 
Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund to use the voice 
and vote of the Executive Director to oppose disbursement of further 
funds if such certification is not given.
    (d) Such certifications shall continue to be made on an annual 
basis as long as Fund contributions continue to be outstanding to the 
borrower country.
    (e) After consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of Commerce shall 
establish a team composed of employees of the Department of Commerce--
            (1) to collect data on import volumes and prices, and 
        industry statistics in--
                    (A) the steel industry;
                    (B) the semiconductor industry;
                    (C) the automobile industry;
                    (D) the textile and apparel industry; and
                    (E) shipbuilding;
            (2) to monitor the effect of the Asian economic crisis on 
        these industries;
            (3) to collect accounting data from Asian producers; and
            (4) to work to prevent import surges in these industries or 
        to assist United States industries affected by such surges in 
        their efforts to protect themselves under the trade laws of the 
        United States.
    (f) The Secretary of Commerce shall provide administrative support, 
including office space, for the team.
    (g) The Secretary of the Treasury and the United States Trade 
Representative may assign such employees to the team as may be 
necessary to assist the team in carrying out its functions under 
subsection (e).
    Sec. 607. Limitations on International Monetary Fund Loans to 
Indonesia. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund to use the 
voice and vote of the United States to prevent the extension of 
International Monetary Fund resources--
            (1) directly to or for the direct benefit of the President 
        of Indonesia or any member of the President's family; and
            (2) the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
        Executive Director to use the United States voice and vote to 
        oppose further disbursement of funds to Indonesia on any 
        International Monetary Fund terms or conditions less stringent 
        than those imposed on the Republic of Korea and the Philippines 
        Republic.
    Sec. 608. Advocacy of Policies to Enhance the General Effectiveness 
of the International Monetary Fund. The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States Executive Director of the International 
Monetary Fund to use aggressively the voice and vote of the United 
States to vigorously promote policies to encourage the opening of 
markets for agricultural commodities and products by requiring 
recipient countries to make efforts to reduce trade barriers.
    Sec. 609. Advisory Committee on IMF Policy. (a) In general.--The 
Secretary of the Treasury shall establish an International Monetary 
Fund Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as ``Advisory 
Committee'').
    (b) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 8 members 
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury, after appropriate 
consultations with the relevant organizations, as follows--
            (1) at least 2 members shall be representatives from 
        organized labor;
            (2) at least 2 members shall be representatives from 
        nongovernmental environmental organizations;
            (3) at least 2 members shall be representatives from 
        nongovernmental human rights or social justice organizations.
    (c) Duties.--Not less frequently than every six months, the 
Advisory Committee shall meet with the Secretary of the Treasury to 
review and provide advice on the extent to which individual 
International Monetary Fund country programs meet requisite policy 
goals, particularly those set forth as follows--
            (1) in this Act;
            (2) in Article I(2) of the Fund's Articles of Agreements, 
        to promote and maintain high levels of employment and real 
        income and the development of the productive resources of all 
        members;
            (3) in section 1621 of Public Law 103-306, the Frank/
        Sanders amendment on encouragement of fair labor practices;
            (4) in section 1620 of Public Law 95-118, as amended, on 
        respect for, and full protection of, the territorial rights, 
        traditional economies, cultural integrity, traditional 
        knowledge, and human rights of indigenous peoples;
            (5) in section 1502 of Public Law 95-118, as amended, on 
        military spending by recipient countries and military 
        involvement in the economies of recipient countries;
            (6) in section 701 of Public Law 95-118, on assistance to 
        countries that engage in a pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (7) in section 1307 of Public Law 95-118, on assessments of 
        the environmental impact and alternatives to proposed actions 
        by the International Monetary Fund which would have a 
        significant effect on the human environment.
    (d) Inapplicability of Termination Provisions of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act.--Section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.
    Sec. 610. Borrower Countries. The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
consult with the office of the United States Trade Representative 
regarding prospective International Monetary Fund borrower countries, 
including their status with respect to title III of the Trade Act of 
1974 or any executive order issued pursuant to the aforementioned 
title, and shall take these consultations into account before 
instructing the United States Executive Director of the International 
Monetary Fund on the United States position regarding loans or credits 
to such borrowing countries.
    Sec. 611. Definitions. For the purposes of this title, 
``appropriate committees'' includes the Appropriations Committee, the 
Committee on Foreign Relations, Committee on Finance and the Committee 
on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial Services 
in the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 612. Availability of Funds. Funds made available in Title VI 
shall be available upon date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 613. Progress Reports to Congress on United States Initiatives 
to Update the Architecture of the International Monetary System. Not 
later than July 15, 1999 and July 15, 2000, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall report to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, Foreign Relations, and Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs and House Committees on Appropriations and Banking 
and Financial Services on the progress of efforts to reform the 
architecture of the international monetary system. The reports shall 
include a discussion of the substance of the United States position in 
consultations with other governments and the degree of progress in 
achieving international acceptance and implementation of such position 
with respect to the following issues:
            (1) Adapting the mission and capabilities of the 
        International Monetary Fund to take better account of the 
        increased importance of cross-border capital flows in the world 
        economy and improving the coordination of its responsibilities 
        and activities with those of the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development.
            (2) Advancing measures to prevent, and improve the 
        management of, international financial crises, including by--
                    (A) integrating aspects of national bankruptcy 
                principles into the management of international 
                financial crises where feasible; and
                    (B) changing investor expectations about official 
                rescues, thereby reducing moral hazard and systemic 
                risk in international financial markets--
        in order to help minimize the adjustment costs that the 
        resolution of financial crises may impose on the real economy, 
        in the form of disrupted patterns of trade, employment, and 
        progress in living standards, and reduce the frequency and 
        magnitude of claims on United States taxpayer resources.
            (3) Improving international economic policy cooperation, 
        including among the Group of Seven countries, to take better 
        account of the importance of cross-border capital flows in the 
        determination of exchange rate relationships.
            (4) Improving international cooperation in the supervision 
        and regulation of financial institutions and markets.
            (5) Strengthening the financial sector in emerging 
        economies, including by improving the coordination of financial 
        sector liberalization with the establishment of strong public 
        and private institutions in the areas of prudential 
        supervision, accounting and disclosure conventions, bankruptcy 
        laws and administrative procedures, and the collection and 
        dissemination of economic and financial statistics, including 
        the maturity structure of foreign indebtedness.
            (6) Advocating that implementation of European Economic and 
        Monetary Union and the advent of the European Currency Unit, or 
        euro, proceed in a manner that is consistent with strong global 
        economic growth and stability in world financial markets.
    Sec. 614. Sense of Congress Regarding the IMF Response to the 
Economic Crisis in Russia. (a) Congress finds that--
            (1) Russia is currently facing a severe economic crisis 
        that threatens President Boris Yeltsin's ability to maintain 
        power;
            (2) the Russian Communist Party may well soon be a part of 
        the government of the Russian Republic and may be given real 
        influence over Russian economic policies;
            (3) the International Monetary Fund has continued to 
        provide funding to Russia despite Russia's refusal to implement 
        reforms tied to the funding;
            (4) the Russian economic crisis follows a similar crisis in 
        Asia;
            (5) the International Monetary Fund imposed strict 
        requirements on the Republic of Korea and other democratic and 
        free market nations in Asia;
            (6) the International Monetary Fund has not imposed the 
        same requirements on Russia; and
            (7) Russia has not made the same commitment to free market 
        economic principles as the Republic of Korea, and other Asian 
        nations receiving assistance from the International Monetary 
        Fund.
    (b) It is the sense of Congress that the International Monetary 
Fund should not provide funding to a Russian government whose economic 
policies are significantly affected by the Russian Communist Party, or 
under significantly less free market conditions than those imposed on 
the Republic of Korea and other democratic, free market nations in 
Southeast Asia.
    This title may be cited as the ``International Monetary Fund 
Appropriations Act of 1998''.

              TITLE VII--ASSISTANCE FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA

    Sec. 701. Africa Food Security Initiative. In providing development 
assistance under the Africa Food Security Initiative, or any comparable 
program, the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development--
            (1) shall emphasize programs and projects that improve the 
        food security of infants, young children, school-age children, 
        women, and food-insecure households, or that improve the 
        agricultural productivity, incomes, and marketing of the rural 
        poor in Africa;
            (2) shall solicit and take into consideration the views and 
        needs of intended beneficiaries and program participants during 
        the selection, planning, implementation, and evaluation phases 
        of projects; and
            (3) shall ensure that programs are designed and conducted 
        in cooperation with African and United States organizations and 
        institutions, such as private and voluntary organizations, 
        cooperatives, land-grant and other appropriate universities, 
        and local producer-owned cooperative marketing and buying 
        associations, that have expertise in addressing the needs of 
        the poor, small-scale farmers, entrepreneurs, and rural 
        workers, including women.
    Sec. 702. Microenterprise Assistance. In providing microenterprise 
assistance for sub-Saharan Africa, the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development shall, to the extent 
practicable, use credit and microcredit assistance to improve the 
capacity and efficiency of agriculture production in sub-Saharan Africa 
of small-scale farmers and small rural entrepreneurs. In providing 
assistance, the Administrator should take into consideration the needs 
of women, and should use the applied research and technical assistance 
capabilities of United States land-grant universities.
    Sec. 703. Support for Producer-Owned Cooperative Marketing 
Associations. The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development is authorized to utilize relevant foreign 
assistance programs and initiatives for sub-Saharan Africa to support 
private producer-owned cooperative marketing associations in sub-
Saharan Africa, including rural business associations that are owned 
and controlled by farmer shareholders in order to strengthen the 
capacity of farmers in sub-Saharan Africa to participate in national 
and international private markets and to encourage the efforts of 
farmers in sub-Saharan Africa to increase their productivity and income 
through improved access to farm supplies, seasonal credit, and 
technical expertise.
    Sec. 704. Agricultural and Rural Development Activities of the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation. (a) In General.--The Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation shall exercise its authority under law 
to undertake an initiative to support private agricultural and rural 
development in sub-Saharan Africa, including issuing loans, guarantees, 
and insurance, to support rural development in sub-Saharan Africa, 
particularly to support intermediary organizations that--
            (1) directly serve the needs of small-scale farmers, small 
        rural entrepreneurs, and rural producer-owned cooperative 
        purchasing and marketing associations;
            (2) have a clear track record of support for sound business 
        management practices; and
            (3) have demonstrated experience with participatory 
        development methods.
    (b) Use of Certain Funds.--The Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation shall utilize existing equity funds, loan, and insurance 
funds, to the extent feasible and in accordance with existing 
contractual obligations, to support agriculture and rural development 
in sub-Saharan Africa.
    Sec. 705. Agricultural Research and Extension Activities. (a) 
Development of Plan.--The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Agriculture and appropriate Department of Agriculture agencies, 
especially the Cooperative State, Research, Education, and Extension 
Service (CSREES), shall develop a comprehensive plan to coordinate and 
build on the research and extension activities of United States land-
grant universities, international agricultural research centers, and 
national agricultural research and extension centers in sub-Saharan 
Africa.
    (b) Additional Requirements.--The plan described in subsection (a) 
shall be designed to ensure that--
            (1) research and extension activities respond to the needs 
        of small-scale farmers while developing the potential and 
        skills of researchers, extension agents, farmers, and 
        agribusiness persons in sub-Saharan Africa; and
            (2) sustainable agricultural methods of farming is 
        considered together with new technologies in increasing 
        agricultural productivity in sub-Saharan Africa.

            Passed the Senate September 2 (legislative day, August 31), 
      1998.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2334

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for 
                            other purposes.

S 2334 ES----2
S 2334 ES----3
S 2334 ES----4
S 2334 ES----5
S 2334 ES----6
S 2334 ES----7
S 2334 ES----8
S 2334 ES----9
S 2334 ES----10
S 2334 ES----11
S 2334 ES----12
S 2334 ES----13
S 2334 ES----14
S 2334 ES----15