[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2168 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 414
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2168

                          [Report No. 105-216]

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 12, 1998

Mr. Bond, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, commissions, 
corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1999, and for other purposes, namely:

                TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by law (38 U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61); 
pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and burial 
benefits, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of Article IV 
of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, and 
for other benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 1312, 1977, and 
2106, chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 540-548; 43 Stat. 
122, 123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198); $21,857,058,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $24,534,000 of 
the amount appropriated shall be reimbursed to ``General operating 
expenses'' and ``Medical care'' for necessary expenses in implementing 
those provisions authorized in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1990, and in the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. chapters 51, 
53, and 55), the funding source for which is specifically provided as 
the ``Compensation and pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, That 
such sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall 
be reimbursed to ``Medical facilities revolving fund'' to augment the 
funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided 
to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 31, 
34, 35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61, $1,175,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to pay any 
court order, court award or any compromise settlement arising from 
litigation involving the vocational training program authorized by 
section 18 of Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 19; 
70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487, $46,450,000, to remain available until 
expended.

         veterans housing benefit program fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 1999, within the resources available, not to exceed 
$300,000 in gross obligations for direct loans are authorized for 
specially adapted housing loans: Provided further, That during 1999 any 
moneys that would be otherwise deposited into or paid from the Loan 
Guaranty Revolving Fund, the Guaranty and Indemnity Fund, or the Direct 
Loan Revolving Fund shall be deposited into or paid from the Veterans 
Housing Benefit Program Fund: Provided further, That any balances in 
the Loan Guaranty Revolving Fund, the Guaranty and Indemnity Fund, or 
the Direct Loan Revolving Fund on the effective date of this Act may be 
transferred to and merged with the Veterans Housing Benefit Program 
Fund.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $159,121,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                  education loan fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $3,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $206,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $55,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $2,401,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $400,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, $515,000, 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, 
as authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department; 
and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and equipment; 
funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for 
beneficiaries receiving care in the Department; administrative expenses 
in support of planning, design, project management, real property 
acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of any 
facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
oversight, engineering and architectural activities not charged to 
project cost; repairing, altering, improving or providing facilities in 
the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of the 
Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by the 
hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; aid to State 
homes as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1741; administrative and legal 
expenses of the Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed 
the Department as authorized under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.; and not to 
exceed $8,000,000 to fund cost comparison studies as referred to in 38 
U.S.C. 8110(a)(5); $17,250,000,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That 
of the funds made available under this heading, $687,000,000 is for the 
equipment and land and structures object classifications only, which 
amount shall not become available for obligation until August 1, 1999, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2000.
    In addition, in conformance with Public Law 105-33 establishing the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Care Collections Fund, such sums 
as may be deposited to such Fund pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1729A may be 
transferred to this account, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of this account.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
73, to remain available until September 30, 2000, $310,000,000, plus 
reimbursements.

      medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, architectural, engineering, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including site acquisition; engineering and 
architectural activities not charged to project cost; and research and 
development in building construction technology; $60,000,000, plus 
reimbursements.

                   general post fund, national homes

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8, which shall be transferred from the ``General post 
fund'': Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $70,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $54,000, which shall be transferred from the ``General 
post fund'', as authorized by Public Law 102-54, section 8.

                      Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of overseas 
employee mail; $854,661,000: Provided, That funds under this heading 
shall be available to administer the Service Members Occupational 
Conversion and Training Act.

                        national cemetery system

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery System, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of six passenger motor vehicles for use in cemeterial 
operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $92,006,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$36,000,000.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of 38 U.S.C., 
including planning, architectural and engineering services, maintenance 
or guarantee period services costs associated with equipment guarantees 
provided under the project, services of claims analysts, offsite 
utility and storm drainage system construction costs, and site 
acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is $4,000,000 or 
more or where funds for a project were made available in a previous 
major project appropriation, $142,300,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That except for advance planning of projects funded 
through the advance planning fund and the design of projects funded 
through the design fund, none of these funds shall be used for any 
project which has not been considered and approved by the Congress in 
the budgetary process: Provided further, That funds provided in this 
appropriation for fiscal year 1999, for each approved project shall be 
obligated (1) by the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
September 30, 1999, and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract 
by September 30, 2000: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
promptly report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations any 
approved major construction project in which obligations are not 
incurred within the time limitations established above: Provided 
further, That no funds from any other account except the ``Parking 
revolving fund'', may be obligated for constructing, altering, 
extending, or improving a project which was approved in the budget 
process and funded in this account until one year after substantial 
completion and beneficial occupancy by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs of the project or any part thereof with respect to that part 
only.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
sections 316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 
of 38 U.S.C., where the estimated cost of a project is less than 
$4,000,000; $175,000,000, to remain available until expended, along 
with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is less than $4,000,000: Provided, That funds in 
this account shall be available for (1) repairs to any of the 
nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
Department which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any 
natural disaster or catastrophe, and (2) temporary measures necessary 
to prevent or to minimize further loss by such causes.

                         parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109, 
income from fees collected, to remain available until expended, which 
shall be available for all authorized expenses except operations and 
maintenance costs, which will be funded from ``Medical care''.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8131-
8137, $90,000,000, to remain available until expended.

        grants for the construction of state veteran cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 2408, $10,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Section 101. Any appropriation for fiscal year 1999 for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' may be transferred to any other 
of the mentioned appropriations.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1999 for salaries and expenses shall be 
available for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'', and the ``Parking 
revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for 
or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 104. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs shall be available for hospitalization or examination 
of any persons (except beneficiaries entitled under the laws bestowing 
such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under 5 
U.S.C. 7901-7904 or 42 U.S.C. 5141-5204), unless reimbursement of cost 
is made to the ``Medical care'' account at such rates as may be fixed 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1999 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
shall be available for payment of prior year accrued obligations 
required to be recorded by law against the corresponding prior year 
accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 1998.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations accounts available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 1999 shall be available to pay prior 
year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 1999, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the National 
Service Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1920), the Veterans' Special 
Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1923), and the United States Government 
Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1955), reimburse the ``General operating 
expenses'' account for the cost of administration of the insurance 
programs financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement 
shall be made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in an 
insurance program in fiscal year 1999, that are available for dividends 
in that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of an insurance program exceeds the amount of surplus 
earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be made only 
to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for fiscal year 
1999, which is properly allocable to the provision of each insurance 
program and to the provision of any total disability income insurance 
included in such insurance program.
    Sec. 108. In accordance with section 1557 of title 31, United 
States Code, the following obligated balances shall be exempt from 
subchapter IV of chapter 15 of such title and shall remain available 
for expenditure without fiscal year limitation: (1) funds obligated by 
the Department of Veterans Affairs for lease numbers 084B-05-94, 084B-
07-94, and 084B-027-94 from funds made available in the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public Law 103-124) under the 
heading ``Medical care''; and (2) funds obligated by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for lease number 084B-002-96 from funds made available 
in the Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public 
Law 103-327) under the heading ``Medical care''.
    Sec. 109. Beginning in fiscal year 1999, and thereafter, funds 
available in any Department of Veterans Affairs appropriation or fund 
for salaries and other administrative expenses shall also be available 
to reimburse the Office of Resolution Management and the Office of 
Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs. Payments may be made 
in advance for services to be furnished based on estimated costs. 
Amounts received shall be credited to the General Operating Expenses 
account for use by the office that provided the service.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                       Public and Indian Housing

                        housing certificate fund

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

    For activities and assistance to prevent the involuntary 
displacement of low-income families, the elderly and the disabled 
because of the loss of affordable housing stock, expiration of subsidy 
contracts (other than contracts for which amounts are provided under 
another heading in this Act) or expiration of use restrictions, or 
other changes in housing assistance arrangements, and for other 
purposes, $10,013,542,030, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$9,540,000,000 shall be for assistance under the United States Housing 
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437) for use in connection with expiring or 
terminating section 8 subsidy contracts, for enhanced vouchers as 
provided under the ``Preserving Existing Housing Investment'' account 
in the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997, (Public 
Law 104-204), and contracts entered into pursuant to section 441 of the 
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may determine not to apply section 8(o)(6)(B) of the Act to 
housing vouchers during fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That of the 
total amount provided under this heading, $433,542,030 shall be for 
section 8 rental assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 
including assistance to relocate residents of properties (i) that are 
owned by the Secretary and being disposed of or (ii) that are 
discontinuing section 8 project-based assistance; for the conversion of 
section 23 projects to assistance under section 8; for funds to carry 
out the family unification program; and for the relocation of witnesses 
in connection with efforts to combat crime in public and assisted 
housing pursuant to a request from a law enforcement or prosecution 
agency: Provided further, That of the total amount made available in 
the preceding proviso, up to $40,000,000 shall be made available to 
nonelderly disabled families affected by the designation of a public 
housing development under section 7 of such Act, the establishment of 
preferences in accordance with section 651 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1361l), or the restriction of 
occupancy to elderly families in accordance with section 658 of such 
Act, and to the extent the Secretary determines that such amount is not 
needed to fund applications for such affected families, to other 
nonelderly disabled families: Provided further, That the amount made 
available under the fifth proviso under the heading ``Prevention of 
Resident Displacement'' in title II of the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997, Public Law 104-204, shall also be made 
available to nonelderly disabled families affected by the restriction 
of occupancy to elderly families in accordance with section 658 of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992: Provided further, That 
to the extent the Secretary determines that the amount made available 
under the fifth proviso under the heading ``Prevention of Resident 
Displacement'' in title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1997, Public Law 104-204, is not needed to fund applications for 
affected families described in the fifth proviso, or in the preceding 
proviso under this heading in this Act, the amount not needed shall be 
made available to other nonelderly disabled families: Provided further, 
That of the total amount under this heading, $40,000,000 shall be made 
available on a fair share basis to public housing agencies as section 8 
assistance for families on waiting lists who agree to participate in 
local self-sufficiency/welfare-to-work initiatives, of which $4,000,000 
shall be made available each to public housing agencies for 
demonstration local self-sufficiency/welfare-to-work initiatives in Los 
Angeles, California; Cleveland, Ohio; Kansas City, Missouri; Charlotte, 
North Carolina; Miami/Dade County, Florida; Prince Georges County, 
Maryland; New York City, New York; and Anchorage, Alaska: Provided 
further, That from the sources and in the order hereinafter specified, 
$1,400,000,000 is rescinded: Provided further, That the first source 
shall be amounts that are available or may be recaptures from project-
based contracts for section 8 assistance that expired or were 
terminated during fiscal year 1999 or any prior year: Provided further, 
That after all amounts that are available or may be recaptured from the 
first source have been exhausted, the second source shall be 
unobligated amounts from amendments to contracts for project-based 
section 8 assistance, other than contracts for projects developed under 
section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, other than amounts described as 
the fourth source, in the fourth proviso in this paragraph, that are 
carried over into 1999: Provided further, That after all amounts that 
are available from the second source are exhausted, the third source 
shall be amounts recaptured from section 8 reserves in the section 8 
moderate rehabilitation program: Provided further, That after all 
amounts that are available or may be recaptured from the third source 
have been exhausted, the fourth source shall be all unobligated amounts 
for project-based assistance that are earmarked under the third proviso 
under this heading in Public Law 105-65, 111 Stat. 1351 (approved 
October 27, 1997): Provided further, That any amounts that are 
available or recaptured in connection with the first or third provisos 
of this paragraph that are in the Annual Contributions for Assisted 
Housing account, and are required to be rescinded by this paragraph, 
shall be rescinded from the Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing 
account.

                 section 8 reserve preservation account

    The amounts recaptured during fiscal years 1998 and 1999 that were 
heretofore made available to public housing agencies for tenant-based 
assistance under the section 8 existing housing certificate and housing 
voucher programs from the Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing 
account shall be collected in the account under this heading, for use 
as provided for under this heading, as set forth under the Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing heading in chapter 11 of Public Law 
105-18, approved June 12, 1997.

                      public housing capital fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program for modernization of 
existing public housing projects as authorized under section 14 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437), 
$2,550,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
the total amount, up to $100,000,000 shall be for carrying out 
activities under section 6(j) of such Act and technical assistance for 
the inspection of public housing units, contract expertise, and 
training and technical assistance directly or indirectly, under grants, 
contracts, or cooperative agreements, to assist in the oversight and 
management of public housing (whether or not the housing is being 
modernized with assistance under this proviso) or tenant-based 
assistance, including, but not limited to, an annual resident survey, 
data collection and analysis, training and technical assistance by or 
to officials and employees of the Department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents in connection with the public housing 
programs and for lease adjustments to section 23 projects: Provided 
further, That of the amount available under this heading, up to 
$5,000,000 shall be for the Tenant Opportunity Program: Provided 
further, That all balances, as of September 30, 1997, of funds 
heretofore provided for section 673 public housing service coordinators 
shall be transferred to and merged with amounts made available under 
this heading.

                     public housing operating fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payments to public housing agencies for operating subsidies for 
low-income housing projects as authorized by section 9 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), 
$2,818,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             drug elimination grants for low-income housing

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For grants to public housing agencies and tribally designated 
housing entities for use in eliminating crime in public housing 
projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11901-11908, for grants for federally 
assisted low-income housing authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11909, and for drug 
information clearinghouse services authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11921-11925, 
$310,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $10,000,000 
shall be for grants, technical assistance, contracts and other 
assistance, training, and program assessment and execution for or on 
behalf of public housing agencies, resident organizations, and Indian 
Tribes and their tribally designated housing entities (including the 
cost of necessary travel for participants in such training); 
$10,000,000 shall be used in connection with efforts to combat violent 
crime in public and assisted housing under the Operation Safe Home 
Program administered by the Inspector General of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development; $10,000,000 shall be provided to the 
Office of Inspector General for Operation Safe Home; and $20,000,000 
shall be available for a program named the New Approach Anti-Drug 
program which will provide competitive grants to entities managing or 
operating public housing developments, federally assisted multifamily 
housing developments, or other multifamily housing developments for 
low-income families supported by non-Federal governmental entities or 
similar housing developments supported by nonprofit private sources in 
order to provide or augment security (including personnel costs), to 
assist in the investigation and/or prosecution of drug related criminal 
activity in and around such developments, and to provide assistance for 
the development of capital improvements at such developments directly 
relating to the security of such developments: Provided, That grants 
for the New Approach Anti-Drug program shall be made on a competitive 
basis as specified in section 102 of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Reform Act of 1989: Provided further, That the term 
``drug-related crime'', as defined in 42 U.S.C. 11905(2), shall also 
include other types of crime as determined by the Secretary: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding section 5130(c) of the Anti-Drug Abuse 
Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 11909(c)), the Secretary may determine not to 
use any such funds to provide public housing youth sports grants.

     revitalization of severely distressed public housing (hope vi)

    For grants to public housing agencies for assisting in the 
demolition of obsolete public housing projects or portions thereof, the 
revitalization (where appropriate) of sites (including remaining public 
housing units) on which such projects are located, replacement housing 
which will avoid or lessen concentrations of very low-income families, 
and tenant-based assistance in accordance with section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937; and for providing replacement housing and 
assisting tenants displaced by the demolition, $600,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which the Secretary may use up to 
$15,000,000 for technical assistance and contract expertise, to be 
provided directly or indirectly by grants, contracts or cooperative 
agreements, including training and cost of necessary travel for 
participants in such training, by or to officials and employees of the 
Department and of public housing agencies and to residents: Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review pursuant to the National 
Environment Policy Act of 1969, a grant under this head or under prior 
appropriations Acts for this head shall be treated as assistance under 
title I of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and shall be subject 
to regulations issued by the Secretary to implement section 26 of such 
Act: Provided further, That no funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be used for any purpose that is not provided for herein, in the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, in the Appropriations Acts for the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1997, 
and the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 
1996: Provided further, That none of such funds shall be used directly 
or indirectly by granting competitive advantage in awards to settle 
litigation or pay judgments, unless expressly permitted herein.

                  native american housing block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-330), $600,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $6,000,000 shall be used to support 
the inspection of Indian housing units, contract expertise, training, 
and technical assistance in the oversight and management of Indian 
housing and tenant-based assistance, including up to $200,000 for 
related travel: Provided, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $6,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of guaranteed 
notes and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of the Native 
American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996: 
Provided further, That such costs, including the costs of modifying 
such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize the total principal amount 
of any notes and other obligations, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $217,000,000: Provided further, That the 
funds made available in the first proviso are for a demonstration on 
ways to enhance economic growth, to increase access to private capital, 
and to encourage the investment and participation of traditional 
financial institutions in tribal and other Native American areas.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 3739), 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$68,881,000.

                 rural housing and economic development

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an Office of Rural Housing and Economic Development to be 
established in the Office of Housing in the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the amount under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be 
used to establish a clearinghouse of ideas for innovative strategies 
for rural housing and economic development and revitalization, of which 
$8,000,000 shall be awarded by June 1, 1999 directly to local rural 
nonprofits and community development corporations to support capacity 
building and technical assistance: Provided further, That of the amount 
under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be awarded by June 1, 1999 as seed 
support for nonprofits and community development corporations in states 
which have limited capacity in rural areas: Provided further, That of 
the amount under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be awarded by June 1, 
1999 to state housing finance agencies to support innovative community 
development initiatives in rural communities: Provided further, That 
all grants shall be awarded on a competitive basis as specified in 
section 102 of the HUD Reform Act: Provided further, That all funds 
unobligated as of October 1, 1998 under the fifth paragraph of the 
Community Development Block Grants account in the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs, and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-65; October 27, 1997) 
shall be transferred to this account to be awarded to state housing 
finance agencies for activities under this heading with any outstanding 
earmarks for a state to be awarded to that state's housing finance 
agency.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901), $225,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Secretary may use up to 1 percent of the funds under this 
heading for technical assistance: Provided further, That within 30 days 
of the close of fiscal year 1999, the Secretary shall submit a report 
to the Congress summarizing all technical assistance provided during 
the fiscal year.

                   community development block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out a community 
development grants program as authorized by title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 
U.S.C. 5301), $4,750,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2001: Provided, That $67,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes 
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act; $3,000,000 shall be 
available as a grant to the Housing Assistance Council; $1,800,000 
shall be available as a grant to the National American Indian Housing 
Council; $32,000,000 shall be for grants pursuant to section 107 of 
such Act including $10,000,000 for historically black colleges and 
universities, including $1,800,000 for Dillard University in New 
Orleans: Provided further, That all funding decisions under section 107 
except as specified herein shall be subject to approval through a 
reprogramming letter unless otherwise specified in this bill or the 
Committee report to this bill (S. 2168): Provided further, That not to 
exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated herein 
(other than a grant made available under the preceding proviso to the 
Housing Assistance Council or the National American Indian Housing 
Council, or a grant using funds under section 107(b)(3) of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended) shall be expended 
for ``Planning and Management Development'' and ``Administration'' as 
defined in regulations promulgated by the Department.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $25,000,000 shall 
be made available for ``Capacity Building for Community Development and 
Affordable Housing,'' as authorized by section 4 of the HUD 
Demonstration Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-120), as in effect 
immediately before June 12, 1997, with not less than $10,000,000 of the 
funding to be used in rural areas, including tribal areas.
    Of the amount provided under this heading, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may use up to $55,000,000 for a public and 
assisted housing self-sufficiency program, of which up to $5,000,000 
may be used for the Moving to Work Demonstration, and at least 
$10,000,000 shall be used for grants for service coordinators and 
congregate services for the elderly and disabled: Provided, That for 
self-sufficiency activities, the Secretary may make grants to public 
housing agencies (including Indian tribes and their tribally designated 
housing entities), nonprofit corporations, and other appropriate 
entities for a supportive services program to assist residents of 
public and assisted housing, former residents of such housing receiving 
tenant-based assistance under section 8 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
and other low-income families and individuals: Provided further, That 
the program shall provide supportive services, principally for the 
benefit of public housing residents, to the elderly and the disabled, 
and to families with children where the head of household would benefit 
from the receipt of supportive services and is working, seeking work, 
or is preparing for work by participating in job training or 
educational programs: Provided further, That the supportive services 
may include congregate services for the elderly and disabled, service 
coordinators, and coordinated education, training, and other supportive 
services, including academic skills training, job search assistance, 
assistance related to retaining employment, vocational and 
entrepreneurship development and support programs, transportation, and 
child care: Provided further, That the Secretary shall require 
applications to demonstrate firm commitments of funding or services 
from other sources: Provided further, That the Secretary shall select 
public and Indian housing agencies to receive assistance under this 
heading on a competitive basis, taking into account the quality of the 
proposed program, including any innovative approaches, the extent of 
the proposed coordination of supportive services, the extent of 
commitments of funding or services from other sources, the extent to 
which the proposed program includes reasonably achievable, quantifiable 
goals for measuring performance under the program over a three-year 
period, the extent of success an agency has had in carrying out other 
comparable initiatives, and other appropriate criteria established by 
the Secretary (except that this proviso shall not apply to renewal of 
grants for service coordinators and congregate services for the elderly 
and disabled).
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $40,000,000 shall be available for 
YouthBuild program activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, and 
such activities shall be an eligible activity with respect to any funds 
made available under this heading. Local YouthBuild programs that 
demonstrate an ability to leverage private and nonprofit funding shall 
be given a priority for YouthBuild funding.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $85,000,000 shall 
be available for the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) to finance a 
variety of efforts, including $67,000,000 for making grants for 
targeted economic investments in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified for such grants in the Senate committee report 
accompanying this Act.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $60,000,000 shall be available for the 
lead-based paint hazard reduction program as authorized under sections 
1011 and 1053 of the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 
1992.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $29,000,000, as authorized by 
section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,261,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation 
on outstanding obligations guaranteed in section 108(k) of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, $1,000,000, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
departmental salaries and expenses.
    For any fiscal year, of the amounts made available as emergency 
funds under the heading ``Community Development Block Grants Fund'' and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than $250,000 may 
be used for the non-Federal cost-share of projects funded by the 
Secretary of the Army through the Corps of Engineers.

                       brownfields redevelopment

    For Economic Development Grants, as authorized by section 108(q) of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, for 
Brownfields redevelopment projects, $25,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall make these grants available on a competitive basis as 
specified in section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Reform Act of 1989.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,550,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That up to $7,000,000 of these funds shall be 
available for the development and operation of integrated community 
development management information systems: Provided further, That up 
to $25,000,000 of these funds shall be available for Housing Counseling 
under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act, as amended); the supportive housing program (as authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized under the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist homeless 
individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the shelter plus care program (as authorized under 
subtitle F of title IV of such Act), $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not less than 30 percent of 
these funds shall be used for permanent housing, and all funding for 
services must be matched by 25 percent in funding by each grantee.

                            Housing Programs

                    housing for special populations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For assistance for the purchase, construction, acquisition, or 
development of additional public and subsidized housing units for low 
income families under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended 
(42 U.S.C. 1437), not otherwise provided for, $870,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $676,000,000 shall be for capital advances, 
including amendments to capital advance contracts, for housing for the 
elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and for project rental assistance, and amendments to contracts 
for project rental assistance, for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) 
of the Housing Act of 1959, and for supportive services associated with 
the housing; and $194,000,000 shall be for capital advances, including 
amendments to capital advance contracts, for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, for project rental 
assistance, for amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, 
and supportive services associated with the housing for persons with 
disabilities as authorized by section 811 of such Act: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may designate up to 25 percent of the 
amounts earmarked under this paragraph for section 811 of such Act for 
tenant-based assistance, as authorized under that section, including 
such authority as may be waived under the next proviso, which 
assistance is five years in duration: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive any provision of section 202 of the Housing Act of 
1959 and section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act (including the provisions governing the terms and 
conditions of project rental assistance and tenant-based assistance) 
that the Secretary determines is not necessary to achieve the 
objectives of these programs, or that otherwise impedes the ability to 
develop, operate or administer projects assisted under these programs, 
and may make provision for alternative conditions or terms where 
appropriate.

                         flexible subsidy fund

                          (transfer of funds)

    Any collections from the Rental Housing Assistance Fund made during 
fiscal year 1999 shall be transferred to the Flexible Subsidy Fund, as 
authorized by section 236(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended.

                     Federal Housing Administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 1999, commitments to guarantee loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed a loan principal of $110,000,000,000.
    During fiscal year 1999, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $100,000,000: Provided, That the foregoing 
amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with sales of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance 
Fund.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $328,888,000, to be derived from the FHA-
mutual mortgage insurance guaranteed loans receipt account, of which 
not to exceed $324,866,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation 
for departmental salaries and expenses; and of which not to exceed 
$4,022,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

             fha--general and special risk program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), 
including the cost of loan guarantee modifications (as that term is 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
amended), $81,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, of up to $18,100,000,000: Provided 
further, That any amounts made available in any prior appropriations 
Act for the cost (as such term is defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans that are 
obligations of the funds established under section 238 or 519 of the 
National Housing Act that have not been obligated or that are 
deobligated shall be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the making of such guarantees and shall 
remain available until expended, notwithstanding the expiration of any 
period of availability otherwise applicable to such amounts.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238(a), and 519(a) of the 
National Housing Act, shall not exceed $120,000,000; of which not to 
exceed $100,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with 
the sale of multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and 
formerly insured under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection 
with the sale of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary 
and formerly insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $211,455,000, of which 
$193,134,000, including $25,000,000 for the enforcement of housing 
standards on FHA-insured multifamily projects, shall be transferred to 
the appropriation for departmental salaries and expenses; and of which 
$18,321,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 1999, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $150,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $9,383,000, to be derived from the 
GNMA-guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $9,383,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for departmental salaries and expenses.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $36,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That no funds under this 
heading may be used to fund a demonstration program, except where 
approval is provided in response to a reprogramming request.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$35,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999, of which 
$15,000,000 shall be to carry out activities pursuant to such section 
561. No funds made available under this heading shall be used to lobby 
the executive or legislative branches of the Federal government in 
connection with a specific contract, grant or loan.

                     Management and Administration

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided 
for, including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,000,826,000, of which $518,000,000 shall be 
provided from the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, 
$9,383,000 shall be provided from funds of the Government National 
Mortgage Association, $1,000,000 shall be provided from the ``Community 
Development Grants Program'' account, $200,000 shall be provided from 
the ``Title VI Indian Federal Guarantees Program'' account, and 
$400,000 shall be provided from the ``Indian Housing Loan Guarantee 
Fund Program'' account: Provided, That the Department is prohibited 
from employing more than 77 schedule C and 20 noncareer Senior 
Executive Service employees.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$66,850,000, of which $22,343,000 shall be provided from the various 
funds of the Federal Housing Administration and $10,000,000 shall be 
transferred from the amount earmarked for Operation Safe Home in the 
``Drug Elimination Grants for Low Income Housing'' account.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety 
and Soundness Act of 1992, $16,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be derived from the Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight 
Fund: Provided, That not to exceed such amount shall be available from 
the General Fund of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur 
obligations and make expenditures pending the receipt of collections to 
the Fund: Provided further, That the General Fund amount shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final appropriation from the General Fund estimated at not 
more than $0.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 201. Extenders. (a) One-for-One Replacement of Public 
Housing.--Section 1002(d) of Public Law 104-19 is amended by striking 
``1997'' and inserting ``1998''.
    (b) Streamlining Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance.--Section 203(d) 
of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, is 
amended by striking ``1997, and 1998'' and inserting ``1997, 1998, and 
1999''.
    (c) Public and Assisted Housing Rents, Income Adjustments and 
Preferences.--
            (1) Section 402(a) of The Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, 
        I is amended by striking ``fiscal years 1997 and 1998'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal years 1997, 1998, and 1999''.
            (2) Section 402(f) of The Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, 
        I is amended by striking ``fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998'' 
        and inserting ``fiscal years 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999''.
    Sec. 202. Financing Adjustment Factors.--Fifty percent of the 
amounts of budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash 
amounts associated with such budget authority, that are recaptured from 
projects described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-628, 102 
Stat. 3224, 3268) shall be rescinded, or in the case of cash, shall be 
remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget authority or cash 
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury shall be used 
by State housing finance agencies or local governments or local housing 
agencies with projects approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development for which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in 
accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, 
the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the budget authority or 
cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury to 
provide project owners with incentives to refinance their project at a 
lower interest rate.
    Sec. 203. Fair Housing and Free Speech.--None of the amounts made 
available under this Act may be used during fiscal year 1998 to 
investigate or prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any otherwise 
lawful activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the filing 
or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal action, that is engaged in 
solely for the purpose of achieving or preventing action by a 
government official or entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 204. Requirement for HUD to Maintain Public Notice and Comment 
Rulemaking.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 1998 and for all fiscal years thereafter, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development shall maintain all current requirements under 
part 10 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development regulations 
(24 CFR part 10) with respect to the Department's policies and 
procedures for the promulgation and issuance of rules, including the 
use of public participation in the rulemaking process.
    Sec. 205. Brownfields as Eligible CDBG Activity.--For fiscal years 
1998 and 1999, States and entitlement communities may use funds 
allocated under the community development block grants program under 
title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 for 
environmental cleanup and economic development activities related to 
Brownfields projects in conjunction with the appropriate environmental 
regulatory agencies, as if such activities were eligible under section 
105(a) of such Act.
    Sec. 206. Enhanced Disposition Authority.--Section 204 of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997, is amended by inserting 
after ``owned by the Secretary'' the following: ``, including, for 
fiscal years 1998 and 1999, the provision of grants and loans from the 
General Insurance Fund (12 U.S.C. 1735c) for the necessary costs of 
rehabilitation or demolition,''.
    Sec. 207. HUD Rent Reform.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may provide tenant-
based assistance to eligible tenants of a project insured under either 
sections 221(d)(3) or 236 of the National Housing Act in the same 
manner as if the owner had prepaid the insured mortgage to the extent 
necessary to minimize any rent increases or to prevent displacement of 
low-income tenants in accordance with a transaction approved by the 
Secretary provided that the rents are no higher than the published 
section 8 fair market rents, as of the date of enactment, during the 
tenants' occupancy of the property.
    Sec. 208. Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS Grants.--(a) 
Eligibility.--Notwithstanding section 854(c)(1)(A) of the AIDS Housing 
Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)(1)(A)), from any amounts made 
available under this title for fiscal year 1999 that are allocated 
under such section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall allocate and make a grant, in the amount determined under 
subsection (b), for any State that--
            (1) received an allocation for fiscal year 1998 under 
        clause (ii) of such section;
            (2) is not otherwise eligible for an allocation for fiscal 
        year 1999 under such clause (ii) because the State does not 
        have the number of cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
        required under such clause; and
            (3) would meet such requirement if the cases in the 
        metropolitan statistical area for any city within the State, 
        which city was not eligible for an allocation for fiscal year 
        1998 under clause (i) of such section but is eligible for an 
        allocation for fiscal year 1999 under such clause, were 
        considered to be cases outside of metropolitan statistical 
        areas described in clause (i) of such section.
    (b) Amount.--The amount of the allocation and grant for any State 
described in subsection (a) shall be the amount that is equal to the 
lesser of--
            (1) the difference between--
                    (A) the total amount allocated for such State under 
                section 854(c)(1)(A)(ii) of the AIDS Housing 
                Opportunity Act for fiscal year 1997; and
                    (B) the total amount allocated for the city 
                described in subsection (a)(3) of this section under 
                section 854(c)(1)(A)(i) of such Act for fiscal year 
                1998 (from amounts made available under this title); 
                and
            (2) $300,000.
    Sec. 209. Section 236 Program Reform.--Section 236(g) of the 
National Housing Act is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) The project owner shall, as required by the Secretary, 
accumulate, safeguard, and periodically pay the Secretary or such other 
entity as determined by the Secretary and upon such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate, all rental charges 
collected on a unit-by-unit basis in excess of the basic rental 
charges. Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary, such excess 
charges shall be credited to a reserve fund to be used by the Secretary 
to make additional assistance payments as provided in paragraph (3) of 
subsection (f). Notwithstanding any other requirements of this 
subsection, a project owner with a mortgage insured under this section 
or insured under section 207 of this Act pursuant to section 223(f) of 
this Act may retain some or all of such excess charges for project use 
if authorized by the Secretary and upon such terms and conditions as 
established by the Secretary.''.
    Sec. 210. FHA Multifamily Mortgage Credit Demonstrations.--Section 
542 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(5) by adding before the period at the 
        end of the first sentence ``, and not more than an additional 
        25,000 units over fiscal year 1999'', and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (c)(4) inserting 
        after ``fiscal year 1997'' the following: ``and not more than 
        an additional 25,000 units during fiscal year 1999''.
    Sec. 211. Calculation of Downpayment.--Section 203(b)(10) of the 
National Housing Act is amended by--
            (1) striking out ``Alaska and Hawaii'' and inserting in 
        lieu thereof ``Calculation of Downpayment''; and
            (2) striking out in subparagraph (A) ``originated in the 
        State of Alaska or the State of Hawaii and endorsed for 
        insurance in fiscal years 1997 and 1998,'' and inserting in 
        lieu thereof ``originated and endorsed for insurance in fiscal 
        years 1998, 1999, and 2000''.
    Sec. 212. State CDBG IDIS Funding.--During fiscal year 1999, from 
amounts received by a State under section 106(d)(1) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 for distribution in nonentitlement 
areas, the State may deduct an amount, not to exceed the greater of 
0.25 percent of the amount so received or $50,000, for implementation 
of the integrated disbursement and information system established by 
the Secretary, in addition to any amounts used for this purpose from 
amounts retained by the State for administrative expenses under section 
106(d)(3)(A).
    Sec. 213. Nursing Home Lease Terms. (a) Technical Correction.--
Section 216 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, 
is amended by striking out ``fifty years from the date'' and inserting 
in lieu thereof ``fifty years to run from the date''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be 
construed to have taken effect on October 27, 1997.
    Sec. 214. Empowerment Zones as Criteria.--The Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development is prohibited from using as a grant criteria for 
any program administered by the Secretary the use of program funds in 
an empowerment zone or enterprise community.
    Sec. 215. Grant Announcements.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall provide all grant announcements to the Senate and 
House Appropriations Subcommittees on VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies 
at least twenty-four hours before the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development publicly or privately makes an announcement of any grant 
award.
    Sec. 216. Technical for Emergency CDBG Program.--For purposes of 
eligibility for funding under the heading ``Community Development Block 
Grants'' in the 1998 Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions Act 
(Public Law 105-174; May 1, 1998) the term ``states'' shall be deemed 
to include ``Indian tribes'' as defined under section 102(a)(17) of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and Guam, the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa: Provided, That 
amounts made available by this section are designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 217. Account Transition.--The amount of obligated balances in 
appropriations accounts, as set forth in title II of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs, and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 and prior Acts that are recaptured 
hereafter, to the extent not governed by the specific language in an 
account or provision in the Act, shall be held in reserve subject to 
reprogramming, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    Sec. 218. Prohibition on University Funding.--The Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development is prohibited from paying directly or 
indirectly any university the cost of room and board and tuition for 
training associated with community builders or any similar program.
    Sec. 219. FHA Single Family Mortgage Insurance Limits Reform.--(a) 
Section 203(b) of the National Housing Act is amended by striking out 
clause (ii) of paragraph (2)(A) and all that follows through 
``applicable size;'' and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
                            ``(ii) 87 percent of the dollar amount 
                        limitation determined under section 305(a)(2) 
                        of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
                        Act for a residence of applicable size;
                        except that the applicable dollar amount 
                        limitation in effect for any area under this 
                        subparagraph may not be less than 48 percent of 
                        the dollar limitation determined under section 
                        305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
                        Corporation Act for a residence of the 
                        applicable size; and''.
    Sec. 220. Use of Home Funds for Public Housing Modernization.--
Notwithstanding section 212(d)(5) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, amounts made available to the City of Bismarck, 
North Dakota, under subtitle A of title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
National Affordable Housing Act for fiscal year 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 
or 2002, may be used to carry out activities authorized under section 
14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 14371) for the 
purpose of modernizing the Crescent Manor public housing project 
located at 107 East Bowen Avenue, in Bismarck, North Dakota, if--
            (1) the Burleigh County Housing Authority (or any successor 
        public housing agency that owns or operates the Crescent Manor 
        public housing project) has obligated all other Federal 
        assistance made available to that public housing agency for 
        that fiscal year; or
            (2) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
        authorizes the use of those amounts for the purpose of 
        modernizing that public housing project, which authorization 
        may be made with respect to 1 or more of those fiscal years.
    Sec. 221. CDBG and Home Exemption.--The City of Oxnard, California 
may use amounts available to the City under title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 and under subtitle A of title II of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act) to reimburse the 
City for its cost in purchasing 19.89 acres of land, more or less, 
located at the northwest corner of Lombard Street and Camino del Sol in 
the City, on the north side of the 2100 block of Camino del Sol, for 
the purpose of providing affordable housing. The procedures set forth 
in sections 104(g)(2) and (3) of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974 and sections 288(b) and (c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
National Affordable Housing Act shall not apply to any release of funds 
for such reimbursement.

                    TITLE III--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries; 
$26,931,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That where 
station allowance has been authorized by the Department of the Army for 
officers of the Army serving the Army at certain foreign stations, the 
same allowance shall be authorized for officers of the Armed Forces 
assigned to the Commission while serving at the same foreign stations, 
and this appropriation is hereby made available for the payment of such 
allowance: Provided further, That when traveling on business of the 
Commission, officers of the Armed Forces serving as members or as 
Secretary of the Commission may be reimbursed for expenses as provided 
for civilian members of the Commission: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall reimburse other Government agencies, including the 
Armed Forces, for salary, pay, and allowances of personnel assigned to 
it: Provided further, That $2,500,000 for the restoration and 
renovation of the Liberty Memorial Monument to World War I located in 
Kansas City, Missouri.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$6,500,000: Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation 
Board shall have not more than three career Senior Executive Service 
positions.

                       Department of the Treasury

              Community Development Financial Institutions

   community development financial institutions fund program account

    For grants, loans, and technical assistance to qualifying community 
development lenders, and administrative expenses of the Fund, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for ES-3, 
$55,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000, of which 
$12,000,000 may be used for the cost of direct loans, and up to 
$1,000,000 may be used for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct loan program: Provided, That the cost of direct loans, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans not to exceed $32,000,000: Provided further, 
That not more than $25,000,000 of the funds made available under this 
heading may be used for programs and activities authorized in section 
114 of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act 
of 1994.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $46,500,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                national and community service programs

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in the matter under this heading as the 
``Corporation'') in carrying out programs, activities, and initiatives 
under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (referred to in 
the matter under this heading as the ``Act'') (42 U.S.C. 12501 et 
seq.), $425,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999: 
Provided, That not more than $27,000,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4) of the Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12671(a)(4)): Provided further, That not more than $2,500 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That not more than $70,000,000, to remain available without 
fiscal year limitation, shall be transferred to the National Service 
Trust account for educational awards authorized under subtitle D of 
title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq.), of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 shall be available for national service scholarships for 
high school students performing community service: Provided further, 
That not more than $227,000,000 of the amount provided under this 
heading shall be available for grants under the National Service Trust 
program authorized under subtitle C of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12571 et seq.) (relating to activities including the AmeriCorps 
program), of which not more than $40,000,000 may be used to administer, 
reimburse, or support any national service program authorized under 
section 121(d)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12581(d)(2)): Provided 
further, That not more than $5,500,000 of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be made available for the Points of Light 
Foundation for activities authorized under title III of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12661 et seq.): Provided further, That no funds shall be 
available for national service programs run by Federal agencies 
authorized under section 121(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12571(b)): 
Provided further, That to the maximum extent feasible, funds 
appropriated under subtitle C of title I of the Act shall be provided 
in a manner that is consistent with the recommendations of peer review 
panels in order to ensure that priority is given to programs that 
demonstrate quality, innovation, replicability, and sustainability: 
Provided further, That not more than $18,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for the Civilian 
Community Corps authorized under subtitle E of title I of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12611 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $43,000,000 
shall be available for school-based and community-based service-
learning programs authorized under subtitle B of title I of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12521 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $30,000,000 
shall be available for quality and innovation activities authorized 
under subtitle H of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12853 et seq.): 
Provided further, That not more than $5,000,000 shall be available for 
audits and other evaluations authorized under section 179 of the Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12639): Provided further, That to the maximum extent 
practicable, the Corporation shall increase significantly the level of 
matching funds and in-kind contributions provided by the private 
sector, shall expand significantly the number of educational awards 
provided under subtitle D of title I, and shall reduce the total 
Federal costs per participant in all programs.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $3,000,000.

                       Court of Veterans Appeals

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. sections 7251-7298, 
$10,000,000, of which $865,000, shall be available for the purpose of 
providing financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the 
process and reporting procedures set fourth, under this heading in 
Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase of two 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $11,666,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Environmental Protection Agency

                         science and technology

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended; necessary expenses for 
personnel and related costs and travel expenses, including uniforms, or 
allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior 
level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; procurement of laboratory 
equipment and supplies; other operating expenses in support of research 
and development; construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$643,460,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 2000: 
Provided, That the obligated balance of such sums shall remain 
available through September 30, 2007 for liquidating obligations made 
in fiscal years 1999 and 2000.

                 environmental programs and management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior level positions under 
5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library memberships in 
societies or associations which issue publications to members only or 
at a price to members lower than to subscribers who are not members; 
construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; and not to exceed $6,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $1,840,500,000, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That 
the obligated balance of such sums shall remain available through 
September 30, 2007 for liquidating obligations made in fiscal years 
1999 and 2000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$31,154,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, 
That the obligated balance of such sums shall remain available through 
September 30, 2007 for liquidating obligations made in fiscal years 
1999 and 2000.

                        buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $52,948,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     hazardous substance superfund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111 (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; not to 
exceed $1,500,000,000 (of which $100,000,000 shall not become available 
until September 1, 1999), to remain available until expended, 
consisting of $1,250,000,000, as authorized by section 517(a) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended 
by Public Law 101-508, and $250,000,000 as a payment from general 
revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund as authorized by section 
517(b) of SARA, as amended by Public Law 101-508: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be allocated to other Federal 
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, 
That $12,237,300 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 111(m) of CERCLA or any other provision of law, 
$74,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to 
carry out activities described in sections 104(i), 111(c)(4), and 
111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 118(f) of SARA: Provided further, That 
$40,200,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be used for Brownfields 
revolving loan funds unless specifically authorized by subsequent 
legislation: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available for the Agency for Toxic 
Substances and Disease Registry to issue in excess of 40 toxicological 
profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 1998.

                leaking underground storage tank program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, 
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not 
to exceed $75,000 per project, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That hereafter, the Administrator is authorized to 
enter into assistance agreements with Federally recognized Indian 
tribes on such terms and conditions as she deems appropriate for the 
same purposes as are set forth in section 9003(h)(7) of RCRA.

                           oil spill response

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$15,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, and 
to remain available until expended.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,255,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $1,400,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, and $800,000,000 shall be for 
capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds 
under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended; 
$75,000,000 for architectural, engineering, planning, design, 
construction and related activities in connection with the construction 
of high priority water and wastewater facilities in the area of the 
United States-Mexico Border, after consultation with the appropriate 
border commission; $30,000,000 for grants to the State of Alaska to 
address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs of rural and 
Alaska Native Villages; $100,000,000 for making grants for the 
construction of wastewater and water treatment facilities and 
groundwater protection infrastructure in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified for such grants in the Committee report (S. Rept. 
105-216) accompanying this Act (S. 2168); and $850,000,000 for grants, 
including associated program support costs, to States, federally 
recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and air 
pollution control agencies for multi-media or single media pollution 
prevention, control and abatement and related activities, including 
activities pursuant to the provisions set forth under this heading in 
Public Law 104-134, and for making grants under section 103 of the 
Clean Air Act for particulate matter monitoring and data collection 
activities: Provided, That, consistent with section 1452(g) of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12(g)), section 302 of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 (Public Law 104-182) and the 
accompanying joint explanatory statement of the committee on conference 
(H. Rept. No. 104-741 to accompany S. 1316, the Safe Drinking Water Act 
Amendments of 1996), and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
beginning in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, States may combine the 
assets of State Revolving Funds (SRFs) established under section 1452 
of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, and title VI of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, as security for bond issues to 
enhance the lending capacity of one or both SRFs, but not to acquire 
the state match for either program, provided that revenues from the 
bonds are allocated to the purposes of the Safe Drinking Water Act and 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act in the same portion as the 
funds are used as security for the bonds: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the matching requirement in Public Law 104-204 for 
funds appropriated under this heading for grants to the State of Texas 
for improving wastewater treatment for the Colonias, such funds that 
remain unobligated may also be used for improving water treatment for 
the Colonias, and shall be matched by State funds from State resources 
equal to 20 percent of such unobligated funds: Provided further, That, 
hereafter the Administrator is authorized to enter into assistance 
agreements with Federally recognized Indian tribes on such terms and 
conditions as she deems appropriate for the development and 
implementation of programs to manage hazardous waste, and underground 
storage tanks: Provided further, That beginning in fiscal year 1999 and 
thereafter, pesticide program implementation grants under section 
23(a)(1) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, as 
amended, shall be available for pesticide program development and 
implementation, including enforcement and compliance activities.

                        administrative provision

    None of the funding provided under this Act may be used by the 
Environmental Protection Agency to issue any notification, or enter 
into, implement or approve agreements that enable the export of 
government owned ships to be dismantled in foreign countries unless the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency certifies to the 
Congress that the environmental standards imposed by law and enforced 
in the country in which the vessel is to be dismantled or scrapped are 
comparable to the environmental standards imposed and enforced under 
United States law.

                   Executive Office of the President

                office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $5,026,000.

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, $2,575,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds other than those appropriated under this 
heading, shall be used for or by the Council on Environmental Quality 
and Office of Environmental Quality: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1970, the Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as 
Chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the 
Council.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $34,666,000, to be derived from the Bank Insurance Fund, the 
Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                            disaster relief

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$846,000,000, and, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 5203, to remain available 
until expended.

            disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,355,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $440,000.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; 
expenses of attendance of cooperating officials and individuals at 
meetings concerned with the work of emergency preparedness; 
transportation in connection with the continuity of Government programs 
to the same extent and in the same manner as permitted the Secretary of 
a Military Department under 10 U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $170,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $5,400,000.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 
1978, $231,000,000: Provided, That for purposes of pre-disaster 
mitigation pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5131 (b) and (c) and 42 U.S.C. 5196 
(e) and (i), $25,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be available until expended for project grants.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    To carry out an emergency food and shelter program pursuant to 
title III of Public Law 100-77, as amended, $100,000,000: Provided, 
That total administrative costs shall not exceed three and one-half 
percent of the total appropriation.

                radiological emergency preparedness fund

    There is hereby established in the Treasury a Radiological 
Emergency Preparedness Fund, which shall be available under the Atomic 
Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and Executive Order 12657, for offsite 
radiological emergency planning, preparedness, and response. Beginning 
in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, the Director of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall promulgate through rulemaking 
fees to be assessed and collected, applicable to persons subject to 
FEMA's radiological emergency preparedness regulations. The aggregate 
charges assessed pursuant to this section during fiscal year 1999 shall 
not be less than 100 percent of the amounts anticipated by FEMA 
necessary for its radiological emergency preparedness program for such 
fiscal year. The methodology for assessment and collection of fees 
shall be fair and equitable; and shall reflect costs of providing such 
services, including administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees 
received pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the Fund as 
offsetting collections and will become available for authorized 
purposes on October 1, 1999, and remain available until expended.
    For necessary expenses of the Fund for fiscal year 1999, 
$12,849,000, to remain available until expended.

                     national flood insurance fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended, not to exceed 
$22,685,000 for salaries and expenses associated with flood mitigation 
and flood insurance operations, and not to exceed $78,464,000 for flood 
mitigation, including up to $20,000,000 for expenses under section 1366 
of the National Flood Insurance Act, which amount shall be available 
for transfer to the National Flood Mitigation Fund until September 30, 
2000. In fiscal year 1999, no funds in excess of (1) $47,000,000 for 
operating expenses, (2) $343,989,000 for agents' commissions and taxes, 
and (3) $60,000,000 for interest on Treasury borrowings shall be 
available from the National Flood Insurance Fund without prior notice 
to the Committees on Appropriations. For fiscal year 1999, flood 
insurance rates shall not exceed the level authorized by the National 
Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994.
    Section 1309(a)(2) of the National Flood Insurance Act (42 U.S.C. 
4016(a)(2)), as amended by Public Law 104-208, is further amended by 
striking ``1998'' and inserting ``1999''.
    Section 1319 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 4026), is amended by striking ``September 30, 1998'' 
and inserting ``September 30, 1999''.
    Section 1336 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 4056), is amended by striking ``September 30, 1998'' 
and inserting ``September 30, 1999''.
    The first sentence of section 1376(c) of the National Flood 
Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4127(c)), is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 1998'' and inserting ``September 30, 1999''.

                    General Services Administration

                    consumer information center fund

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,419,000, to be 
deposited into the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the 
appropriations, revenues and collections deposited into the fund shall 
be available for necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center 
activities in the aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Appropriations, 
revenues, and collections accruing to this fund during fiscal year 1999 
in excess of $7,500,000 shall remain in the fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                      international space station

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in support of 
the International Space Station, including development, operations and 
research support; maintenance; construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal property, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $2,300,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000.

                 launch vehicles and payload operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of the space shuttle program, including safety and 
performance upgrades, space shuttle operations, and payload utilization 
and operations, and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal 
property, and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as 
authorized by law; space flight, spacecraft control and communications 
activities including operations, production, and services; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,241,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds provided under 
this heading may be utilized to support the development or operations 
of the International Space Station other than costs of space shuttle 
flights utilized for space station assembly.

                         science and technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space science, earth science, life and microgravity 
science, and academic programs, including research, development, 
operations, and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal 
property, and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as 
authorized by law; space flight, spacecraft control and communications 
activities including operations, production, and services; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $4,257,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds provided under 
this heading may be utilized to support the development or operations 
of the International Space Station.

            aeronautics, space transportation and technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics, space transportation, and technology 
research and development activities, including research, development, 
operations, and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal 
property, and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as 
authorized by law; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $1,305,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading may be utilized to support the 
development or operations of the International Space Station.

                            mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for international space station, space shuttle, science 
and technology, aeronautics, space transportation and technology 
programs, including research operations and support; space 
communications activities including operations, production, and 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities including repair, 
rehabilitation, and modification of facilities, minor construction of 
new facilities and additions to existing facilities, facility planning 
and design, environmental compliance and restoration, and acquisition 
or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; program 
management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $35,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 33 
for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
$2,491,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, 
That none of the funds provided under this heading may be utilized to 
support the development or operations of the International Space 
Station.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$20,000,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``International Space Station'', ``Launch Vehicles and 
Payload Operations'', ``Science and Technology'', ``Aeronautics, Space 
Transportation and Technology'', or ``Mission Support'' by this 
appropriations Act, when any activity has been initiated by the 
incurrence of obligations for construction of facilities as authorized 
by law, such amount available for such activity shall remain available 
until expended. This provision does not apply to the amounts 
appropriated in ``Mission support'' pursuant to the authorization for 
repair, rehabilitation and modification of facilities, minor 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``International Space Station'', ``Launch Vehicles and 
Payload Operations'', ``Science and Technology'', ``Aeronautics, Space 
Transportation and Technology'', or ``Mission Support'' by this 
appropriations Act, the amounts appropriated for construction of 
facilities shall remain available until September 30, 2001.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'' and ``Office of Inspector 
General'', amounts made available by this Act for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall remain available until September 30, 1999 and may 
be used to enter into contracts for training, investigations, costs 
associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

    During fiscal year 1999, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions, as authorized by the National Credit Union Central Liquidity 
Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795), shall not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, 
That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity Facility in 
fiscal year 1999 shall not exceed $176,000: Provided further, That 
$1,000,000, together with amounts of principal and interest on loans 
repaid, to be available until expended, is available for loans to 
community development credit unions.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and the Act 
to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of 
aircraft and purchase of flight services for research support; 
acquisition of aircraft; $2,725,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$228,530,000 shall remain available until expended for Polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program; the balance to 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That receipts for 
scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the amount appropriated is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That $50,000,000 of 
the funds available under this heading shall be made available for a 
comprehensive research initiative on plant genomes for economically 
significant crop.

                        major research equipment

    For necessary expenses of major construction projects pursuant to 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, $94,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $683,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That to the extent that 
the amount of this appropriation is less than the total amount 
authorized to be appropriated for included program activities, all 
amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing 
Act for those program activities or their subactivities shall be 
reduced proportionally.

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services and headquarters relocation; $136,950,000: Provided, That 
contracts may be entered into under ``Salaries and expenses'' in fiscal 
year 1999 for maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other 
services, to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$5,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $60,000,000.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $24,940,000: Provided, 
That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt this 
appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he deems 
such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into 
the Armed Forces of the United States.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this Act 
are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has been 
placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not 
exceed the amounts set forth therefore in the budget estimates 
submitted for the appropriations: Provided, That this provision does 
not apply to accounts that do not contain an object classification for 
travel: Provided further, That this section shall not apply to travel 
performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal boards 
of the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with 
major disasters or emergencies declared or determined by the President 
under the provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of 
Inspector General in connection with audits and investigations; or to 
payments to interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the 
budget schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, 
II, and III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially 
submitted for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may 
correspondingly exceed the amounts therefore set forth in the estimates 
in the same proportion.
    Sec. 402. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 403. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).
    Sec. 404. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 405. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
            (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee 
        of the United States unless--
                    (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is 
                part of, a voucher or abstract which describes the 
                payee or payees and the items or services for which 
                such expenditure is being made, or
                    (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
                certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, 
                is specifically authorized by law; and
            (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the 
        General Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from 
        such audit.
    Sec. 406. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between his domicile and his 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under 31 U.S.C. 1344 or 5 U.S.C. 7905.
    Sec. 407. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share 
in the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest 
of the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 408. None of the funds in this Act may be used, directly or 
through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for payment of the 
salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal Government or a 
grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate paid for level 
IV of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically authorized by law.
    Sec. 409. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
pay the expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties 
intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein 
affects the authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission 
pursuant to section 7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 
2056 et seq.).
    Sec. 410. Except as otherwise provided under existing law or under 
an existing Executive Order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts 
which are (1) a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of 
all contracts entered into within twenty-four months prior to the date 
on which the list is made available to the public and of all contracts 
on which performance has not been completed by such date. The list 
required by the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall 
include a narrative description of the work to be performed under each 
such contract.
    Sec. 411. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.), for a contract for 
services unless such executive agency (1) has awarded and entered into 
such contract in full compliance with such Act and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, and (2) requires any report prepared pursuant 
to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, analyses and 
manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is substantially 
derived from or substantially includes any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, to contain information concerning (A) the contract 
pursuant to which the report was prepared, and (B) the contractor who 
prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 412. Except as otherwise provided in section 406, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 413. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles 
per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 414. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on 
which the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 415. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds 
made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 416. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    Sec. 417. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1999 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 418. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 419. Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Act as may be 
necessary in carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 1999 
for such corporation or agency except as hereinafter provided: 
Provided, That collections of these corporations and agencies may be 
used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments only to the extent 
expressly provided for in this Act (unless such loans are in support of 
other forms of assistance provided for in this or prior appropriations 
Acts), except that this proviso shall not apply to the mortgage 
insurance or guaranty operations of these corporations, or where loans 
or mortgage purchases are necessary to protect the financial interest 
of the United States Government.
    Sec. 420. Notwithstanding section 320(g) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1330(g)), funds made available 
pursuant to authorization under such section for fiscal year 1999 and 
prior fiscal years may be used for implementing comprehensive 
conservation and management plans.
    Sec. 421. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term 
``qualified student loan'' with respect to national service education 
awards shall mean any loan made directly to a student by the Alaska 
Commission on Postsecondary Education, in addition to other meanings 
under section 148(b)(7) of the National and Community Service Act.
    Sec. 422. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, no part of any 
appropriation for the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall 
be available for any activity in excess of amounts set forth in the 
budget estimates submitted for the appropriations.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.
                                                       Calendar No. 414

105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2168

                          [Report No. 105-216]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 12, 1998

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar