[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2307 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 468
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2307

                          [Report No. 105-249]

Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 15, 1998

    Mr. Shelby, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                   Immediate Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Secretary, 
$1,768,600: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
there may be credited to this appropriation up to $1,000,000 in funds 
received from user fees.

                Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Deputy 
Secretary, $554,700.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$8,645,000.

              Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy, $2,479,500.

   Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International 
                                Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $6,686,300: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise made available 
may be used to maintain custody of airline tariffs that are already 
available for public and departmental access at no cost; to secure them 
against detection, alteration, or tampering; and open to inspection by 
the Department.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Budget and Programs, $5,687,800, including not to exceed $40,000 for 
allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Governmental Affairs, $1,600,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration, $19,570,200.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Public Affairs, $1,656,600.

                         Executive Secretariat

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Secretariat, $1,088,500.

                       Board of Contract Appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Board of Contract Appeals, $460,000.

         Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization, $1,000,000.

                  Office of Intelligence and Security

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and Security, 
$935,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $4,652,700.

                        Office of Intermodalism

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intermodalism, $1,000,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $5,562,000.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, and development activities, to remain 
available until expended, $8,328,400.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$165,215,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above limitation on 
operating expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: Provided 
further, That no funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any 
program, budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act 
unless notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved 
by such Committees.

               Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
not to exceed $13,775,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the direct loan program, $400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center 
outreach activities, $2,900,000, of which $2,635,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 
U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used for business opportunities related 
to any mode of transportation.

                         Amtrak Reform Council

    For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council authorized 
under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $450,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds provided 
under this heading shall be for payments to outside consultants: 
Provided further, That the duties of the Amtrak Reform Council 
described in section 203(g)(1) of Public Law 105-134 shall include the 
identification of Amtrak routes which are candidates for closure or 
realignment, based on performance rankings developed by Amtrak which 
incorporate information on each route's fully allocated costs and 
ridership on core intercity passenger service, and which assume, for 
purposes of closure or realignment candidate identification, that 
federal subsidies for Amtrak will decline over the 4-year period from 
fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That these 
closure or realignment recommendations shall be included in the Amtrak 
Reform Council's annual report to the Congress required by section 
203(h) of Public Law 105-134.

                              COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare; $2,761,603,000, of which $300,000,000 shall be 
available for national security-related activities and of which 
$25,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: 
Provided, That the number of aircraft on hand at any one time shall not 
exceed 212, exclusive of aircraft and parts stored to meet future 
attrition: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this or any other Act shall be available for pay or administrative 
expenses in connection with shipping commissioners in the United 
States: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act 
shall be available for expenses incurred for yacht documentation under 
46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the extent fees are collected from yacht 
owners and credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That the 
Commandant shall reduce both military and civilian employment levels 
for the purpose of complying with Executive Order No. 12839: Provided 
further, That up to $615,000 in user fees collected pursuant to section 
1111 of Public Law 104-324 shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections in fiscal year 1998: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may transfer funds to this account, from Federal Aviation 
Administration ``Operations'', not to exceed $60,000,000 in total for 
the fiscal year, fifteen days after written notification to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations, solely for the purpose of 
providing additional funds for drug interdiction activities: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
Coast Guard to plan, finalize, or implement any regulation that would 
promulgate new maritime user fees not specifically authorized by law 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

              Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $388,693,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; 
of which $215,473,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate 
or improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain 
available until September 30, 2003; $46,131,000 shall be available to 
acquire new aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001; $35,389,000 shall be available for 
other equipment, to remain available until September 30, 2001; 
$43,250,000 shall be available for shore facilities and aids to 
navigation facilities, to remain available until September 30, 2001; 
and $48,450,000 shall be available for personnel compensation and 
benefits and related costs, to remain available until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That funds received from the sale of HU-25 aircraft 
shall be credited to this appropriation for the purpose of acquiring 
new aircraft and increasing aviation capacity: Provided further, That 
the Commandant may dispose of surplus real property by sale or lease 
and the proceeds shall be credited to this appropriation, of which not 
more than $1,000,000 shall be credited as offsetting collections to 
this account, to be available for the purposes of this account: 
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated from the General 
Fund shall be reduced by such amount: Provided further, That any 
proceeds from the sale or lease of Coast Guard surplus real property in 
excess of $1,000,000 shall be retained and remain available until 
expended, but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 
1999: Provided further, That the Secretary, with funds made available 
under this heading, acting through the Commandant, may enter into a 
long-term Use Agreement with the City of Homer for dedicated pier space 
on the Homer dock necessary to support Coast Guard vessels when such 
vessels call on Homer, Alaska.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $21,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Alteration of Bridges

                          (highway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $20,000,000, to be derived from the highway account of the 
highway trust fund, to remain available until expended.

                              Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55); $684,000,000.

                            Reserve Training

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as 
authorized by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and 
supplies, equipment, and services; $67,000,000: Provided, That no more 
than $20,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve.

              Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $17,461,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from State and local governments, other public authorities, 
private sources, and foreign countries, for expenses incurred for 
research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                    FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities 
and the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, and 
carrying out the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 49, 
United States Code, or other provisions of law authorizing the 
obligation of funds for similar programs of airport and airway 
development or improvement, lease or purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by 
Public Law 104-264, $5,538,259,000, of which $2,158,930,135 shall be 
derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal Aviation 
Administration to plan, finalize, or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically authorized by 
law after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in the 
provision of agency services, including receipts for the maintenance 
and operation of air navigation facilities, and for issuance, renewal 
or modification of certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair 
station certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing 
major repair or alteration forms: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be for the contract 
tower cost-sharing program: Provided further, That funds may be used to 
enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
organization to assist in the development of aviation safety standards: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer funds to this 
account, from Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'', not to exceed 
$60,000,000 in total for the fiscal year, fifteen days after written 
notification to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
solely for the purpose of providing additional funds for air traffic 
control operations and maintenance to enhance aviation safety and 
security: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for new applicants for the second career training program: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for paying premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation 
Administration employee unless such employee actually performed work 
during the time corresponding to such premium pay: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to 
operate a manned auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous 
United States.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, 
and hire of air navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as 
authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States 
Code, including initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant; engineering and service testing, including construction of test 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and 
construction and furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for 
officers and employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed 
at remote localities where such accommodations are not available; and 
the purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,044,683,269, to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That there may be credited to this appropriation funds received from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred in the establishment and modernization 
of air navigation facilities: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
the Prompt Payment Act or any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
the Treasury may not make payments from this account in excess of 
$1,516,000,000 in fiscal year 1999, except for payments for salaries 
and benefits: Provided further, That no action may be brought in any 
court of law for delay of payment pursuant to the preceding proviso: 
Provided further, That no funds may be transferred out of this account 
in fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That any obligation of funds 
that results in an expenditure in excess of $1,736,000,000 in fiscal 
year 1999 shall be deemed to be an obligation in violation of section 
1341 of title 31 of the United States Code: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall submit monthly reports to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations to ensure compliance with the preceding 
provisos and such reports shall include an analysis of cumulative 
obligations and expenditures from October 1, 1998, through the first 
day of the month in which the report is due and specific actions taken 
by the Secretary to ensure that the outlays in fiscal year 1999 
resulting from the use of funds in this account shall not exceed 
$1,736,000,000: Provided further, That no funds shall be available for 
the Wide Area Augmentation System until notification by the Secretary 
that outlays in fiscal year 1999 resulting from the use of funds in 
this account shall not exceed $1,736,000,000: Provided further, That no 
funds shall be available for the Wide Area Augmentation System until 
certification to the House of Representatives Committee on 
Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Appropriations by the 
Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the FAA that the 
Wide Area Augmentation System will provide a sole means of navigation 
for aviation users, the Wide Area Augmentation System continuity 
problems will be solved without additional facilities or funding, and 
the cost/benefit ratio of the Wide Area Augmentation System exceeds the 
cost/benefit ratio of other landing and navigational aid programs: 
Provided further, That no funds shall be available for the Wide Area 
Augmentation System until the Department of Transportation Inspector 
General validates and concurs in the certification of the Secretary and 
the Administrator to the House of Representatives Committee on 
Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Appropriations.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $173,627,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred for research, engineering, and 
development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and for noise compatibility planning 
and programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and 
subchapter I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under 
other law authorizing such obligations, $1,600,000,000, to be derived 
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the planning or execution of programs the obligations for 
which are in excess of $2,100,000,000 in fiscal year 1999 for grants-
in-aid for airport planning and development, and noise compatibility 
planning and programs, notwithstanding section 47117(h) of title 49, 
United States Code: Provided further, That discretionary funds 
available for noise planning and mitigation shall not exceed 
$225,000,000 and discretionary funds available for the military airport 
program shall not exceed $26,000,000: Provided further, That up to 
$100,000,000 shall be available for the procurement of explosive 
detection systems.

                   Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

                Aircraft Purchase Loan Guarantee Program

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for activities 
under this heading during fiscal year 1999.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                 Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration not to exceed $320,413,000 shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: 
Provided, That $3,000,000 shall be transferred to the Appalachian 
Regional Commission.

                 Appalachian Development Highway System

    For carrying out the provisions of section 1069(y) of Public Law 
102-240, relating to construction of, and improvements to, corridors of 
the Appalachian Development Highway System, $200,000,000 to remain 
available until expended.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for which are 
in excess of $25,511,000,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway 
safety construction programs for fiscal year 1999: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the $25,511,000,000 
obligation limitation on Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction programs, not more than $200,000,000 shall be available 
for the implementation or execution of programs for Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (Sections 5204, 5205, 5206, 5207, 5208, and 5209 
of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 1999; not more than $178,150,000 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs for 
transportation research (Sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 507, and 508 of 
title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 of title 49, 
United States Code, as amended; and section 5112 of Public Law 105-178) 
for fiscal year 1999; not more than $38,000,000 shall be available for 
the implementation or execution of programs for Ferry Boat and Ferry 
Terminal Facility Program (Section 1064 of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 129 note; 105 Stat. 
2005) as amended)) for fiscal year 1999; not more than $15,000,000 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs for 
the Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment Program 
(Section 1218 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 1999; not more 
than $31,000,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs for the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (Section 111 of 
title 49, United States Code) for fiscal year 1999: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
$25,511,000,000 obligation limitation, $5,000,000 of the amounts made 
available as contract authority under section 1221(e) of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
shall be made available to carry out section 5113 of that Act: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
$200,000,000 obligation limitation on Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, not less than the following sums shall be made available for 
Intelligent Transportation System projects in the specified areas:
            Atlanta, GA, $4,000,000
            Brandon, VT, $750,000
            Buffalo, NY, $1,750,000
            Columbus, OH, $2,000,000
            Corpus Christi, TX, $900,000
            Delaware River, PA, $4,000,000
            Huntington Beach, CA, $1,000,000
            Jackson, MS, $4,000,000
            Kansas City, MO, $1,000,000
            Mobile, AL, $5,000,000
            Monroe County, NY, $1,000,000
            Montgomery, AL, $2,500,000
            Nashville, TN, $1,000,000
            New York/Long Island, NY, $5,000,000
            Onondaga County, NY, $1,000,000
            Raleigh-Wake County, NC, $4,000,000
            Inglewood, CA, $1,000,000
            Spokane, WA, $900,000
            St Louis, MO, $1,500,000
            State of Alaska, $3,000,000
            State of Idaho, $1,000,000
            State of Maryland, $2,000,000
            State of Michigan, $2,000,000
            State of Missouri ITS project, $1,000,000
            State of Montana, $2,000,000
            State of Nevada, $1,150,000
            State of New Jersey, $6,000,000
            State of New Mexico, $2,000,000
            State of North Dakota, $1,450,000
            State of Pennsylvania, $4,000,000
            State of Texas, $2,000,000
            State of Utah, $7,200,000
            State of Washington, $3,000,000
            State of Wisconsin, $3,000,000
            Westchester and Putnam Counties, NY, $1,000,000.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States Code, 
that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, including the National 
Scenic and Recreational Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not 
otherwise provided, including reimbursements for sums expended pursuant 
to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $24,000,000,000 or so much thereof 
as may be available in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                      Motor Carrier Safety Grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 
31102, $100,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the implementation or execution of 
programs the obligations for which are in excess of $100,000,000 for 
``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                        Operations and Research

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $87,400,000 for traffic and 
highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C., and part C of 
subtitle VI of title 49, U.S.C., of which $58,558,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001; $2,000,000 for chapter 303 of title 
49, U.S.C., to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated or 
expended to plan, finalize, or implement any rulemaking to add to 
section 575.104 of title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations any 
requirement pertaining to a grading standard that is different from the 
three grading standards (treadwear, traction, and temperature 
resistance) already in effect.

                        Operations and Research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 1999, are in 
excess of $72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, 
$200,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 
1999, are in excess of $200,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 
U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 411 of which $150,000,000 shall be for 
``Highway Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402, $10,000,000 shall be 
for ``Occupant Protection Incentive Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, 
$35,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410, $5,000,000 shall be for the ``State 
Highway Safety Data Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 411: Provided further, 
That none of these funds shall be used for construction, 
rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and 
fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or structures: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $5,434,000 of the funds made available for 
Highway Safety Programs under 23 U.S.C. 402 shall be available to NHTSA 
for administering ``Highway Safety Programs'': Provided further, That 
not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 
``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available 
for technical assistance to the States.

                    FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                      Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $21,020,000, of which $1,389,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That, as part of the Washington 
Union Station transaction in which the Secretary assumed the first deed 
of trust on the property and, where the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation or any successor is obligated to make payments on such deed 
of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including payments on and after 
September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to receive such 
payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation, 
credit them to the appropriation charged for the first deed of trust, 
and make payments on the first deed of trust with those funds: Provided 
further, That such additional sums as may be necessary for payment on 
the first deed of trust may be advanced by the Administrator from 
unobligated balances available to the Federal Railroad Administration, 
to be reimbursed from payments received from the Union Station 
Redevelopment Corporation.

                            Railroad Safety

    For necessary expenses in connection with railroad safety, not 
otherwise provided for, $61,876,000, of which $3,825,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading are available 
for the reimbursement of out-of-state travel and per diem costs 
incurred by employees of State governments directly supporting the 
Federal railroad safety program, including regulatory development and 
compliance-related activities.

                   Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$25,760,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation is authorized to sell aluminum reaction 
rail, power rail base, and other related materials located at the 
Transportation Technology Center, near Pueblo, Colorado, and shall 
credit the receipts from such sale to this account, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, to remain available until expended.

                    Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 United States Code sections 26101 and 
26102, $28,494,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
funds under this heading may be made available for grants to States for 
high-speed rail corridor design, feasibility studies, environmental 
analyses, and track and signal improvements.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $10,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations.

                     Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$5,000,000 to be matched by the State of Rhode Island or its designee 
on a dollar for dollar basis and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That as a condition of accepting such funds, the Providence 
and Worcester (P&W) Railroad shall enter into an agreement with the 
Secretary to reimburse Amtrak and/or the Federal Railroad 
Administration, on a dollar for dollar basis, up to the first 
$28,000,000 in damages resulting from the legal action initiated by the 
P&W Railroad under its existing contracts with Amtrak relating to the 
provision of vertical clearances between Davisville and Central Falls 
in excess of those required for present freight operations.

     Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation, $555,000,000; of which not less than 
$200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001, shall be 
for Northeast Corridor improvements authorized by chapter 249 of title 
49, United States Code, and 49 U.S.C. 24104(a); and of which no more 
than $355,000,000, to become available on October 1, 1998 and remain 
available until expended, shall be for capital grants authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 24104(a): Provided further, That the term ``capital 
improvements'' includes projects for--(A)(i) acquisition, construction, 
supervision, or inspection, of a facility or equipment, for use in 
intercity rail transportation; (ii) expenses incidental to the 
acquisition or construction (including designing, engineering, location 
survey, mapping, acquiring rights of way, associated pre-revenue 
startup costs, and environmental mitigation), payments for rail 
trackage rights, Intelligent Transportation Systems; (B) rehabilitating 
rolling stock; (C) remanufacturing rolling stock; (D) overhauling 
rolling stock; and (E) preventive maintenance: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall not obligate more than $222,000,000 prior to 
September 30, 1999.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                        Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $10,800,000: Provided, That no more than $54,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That of the funds in this Act available for the execution of 
contracts under section 5327(c) of title 49, United States Code, 
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the Department of Transportation 
Inspector General for costs associated with the audit and review of new 
fixed guideway systems projects of national significance or that 
experience extensive changes in financial scope or system design.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 United States Code 5307, 
5308, 5310, 5311, and 5327, $570,000,000: Provided, That no more than 
$2,850,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 United States Code 5505, 
$1,200,000: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 of budget authority 
shall be available for these purposes.

                     Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 United States Code 5303, 
5304, 5305, 5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, 
$19,800,000: Provided, That no more than $98,000,000 of budget 
authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided further, That 
$5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation assistance (49 
U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)); $4,000,000 is available to carry out programs under 
the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315); $8,250,000 is 
available to carry out transit cooperative research programs (49 U.S.C. 
5313(a)); $43,841,600 is available for metropolitan planning (49 U.S.C. 
5303, 5304, and 5305); $9,158,400 is available for state planning (49 
U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $27,500,000 is available for the national planning 
and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314): Provided further, That of the 
total budget authority made available for the national planning and 
research program, the Federal Transit Administration shall provide the 
following amounts to the projects listed below:
            Santa Barbara Electric Transportation Institute and San 
        Diego Clean Fuel Ferry program, $1,000,000;
            City of Branson, MO congestion study, $450,000;
            1999 Special Olympics World Summer Games planning and 
        assistance, $1,500,000;
            Skagit County, WA North Sound connecting communities 
        project, Skagit County Council of Governments, $50,000;
            2002 Winter Olympics security training and assistance, 
        $1,000,000;
            Desert air quality comprehensive analysis, Las Vegas, NV, 
        $500,000;
            Vegetation control on rail rights-of-way survey, $250,000;
            Zinc-air battery bus technology demonstration, $1,000,000;
            Virtual transit enterprise distributed information 
        technology demonstration, $1,400,000;
            North Orange-South Seminole County, FL fixed guideway ITS 
        application, $750,000;
            Galveston, TX fixed guideway ITS activities, $750,000;
            Washoe County, NV transit technology, $1,250,000;
            Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority advanced electric 
        transit buses and related infrastructure, $1,500,000;
            Palm Springs, CA fuel cell buses, $1,000,000;
            Gloucester, MA intermodal technology center, $1,500,000; 
        and
            Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority advanced 
        propulsion control system, $2,000,000.

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303 
through 5308, 5310 through 5315, 5317(b), 5322, 5327 and 5334, 
$2,446,200,000, to remain available until expended and to be derived 
from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
$2,280,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
formula grants account: Provided further, That $78,200,000 shall be 
paid to the Federal Transit Administration's transit planning and 
research account: Provided further, That $43,200,000 shall be paid to 
the Federal Transit Administration's administrative expenses account: 
Provided further, That $4,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's university transportation research account: Provided 
further, That $40,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's job access and reverse commute grants program.

                       Capital Investment Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 United States Code 5308, 
5309, 5318, and 5327, $451,400,000: Provided, That no more than 
$2,257,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That there shall be available for fixed 
guideway modernization, $902,800,000; there shall be available for the 
replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related 
equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, $451,400,000; 
and there shall be available for new fixed guideway systems 
$902,800,000: Provided further, That, within the total funds provided 
for buses and bus-related facilities to carry out 49 U.S.C. section 
5309, the following projects shall be considered eligible for these 
funds: Provided further, That the Administrator of the Federal Transit 
Administration shall, not later than 60 days after the enactment of 
this Act, individually submit to the congressional transit 
appropriations and authorization committees the recommended grant 
funding levels for the respective projects from the following projects 
here listed:
            AC Transit electric bus program, CA
            Albany, NY paratransit buses and facilities
            Albuquerque, NM buses and bus facilities
            Alexandria, VA King Street Station access
            Alexandria, VA bus maintenance facility
            Allegheny County, PA buses and intermodal station
            Altoona, PA Metro Transit Authority buses
            Altoona, PA pedestrian crossover
            Altoona, PA Metro Transit Authority Logan Valley Mall 
        suburban transfer center
            Anacortes, WA ferry terminal information system
            Anchorage, AK Ship Creek intermodal facility
            Arkansas statewide bus needs
            Armstrong County-Mid County, PA bus facilities and buses
            Atlanta, GA MARTA buses
            Austin, TX Capital Metro bus replacement
            Babylon, NY intermodal center
            Beaver County, PA transit facility
            Bellingham, WA Whatcom Transit Authority bus maintenance 
        facility
            Berlin, NH Tri-County Community Action transit garage
            Birmingham, AL intermodal facility
            Birmingham-Jefferson County, AL buses
            Boston, MA Logan Airport intermodal buses
            Boston, MA Charles Street/MA General Hospital ``T'' Station 
        Rehabilitation
            Boston, MA South Station intermodal center connection link
            Boulder/Denver, CO RTD buses
            Bradford County, PA Endless Mountain Transportation 
        Authority buses
            Brattleboro, VT Union Station multimodal center
            Brazos, TX Transit Authority buses and facilities
            Bremerton, WA Sinclair's Landing, multimodal center
            Brockton, MA intermodal transportation center
            Brookhaven Town, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Brooklyn-Staten Island, NY mobility enhancement buses
            Broome County, NY buses and fare collection equipment
            Broward County, FL buses
            Buffalo, NY Crossroads intermodal station
            Buffalo, NY Auditorium intermodal center
            Burlington, VT ferry terminal improvements
            Burlington, VT multimodal center
            Butte, MT bus replacements
            California I-5 corridor intermodal transit centers
            Cambria County, PA bus facilities and buses
            Carroll County, NH transportation alliance buses
            Cedar Rapids, IA Ground Transportation Center
            Centre Area, PA Transportation Authority buses
            Chambersburg, PA Transit Authority buses and intermodal 
        center
            Chelan, WA Chelan-Douglas multimodal center
            Chester County, PA Paoli transportation center
            Clark County, NV RTC CNG fueling facility
            Clark County, NV Regional Transportation Commission buses
            Cleveland, OH Triskett Garage bus maintenance facility
            Clinton, WA ferry terminal
            Colorado statewide buses
            Columbia, SC bus replacement
            Concord Area Transit, NH buses
            Corpus Christi, TX transit authority buses and facilities
            Crawford Area, PA buses
            Culver City, CA CityBus buses
            Dade County, FL Metro-Dade Transit Agency replacement buses
            Dallas, TX Dallas Area Rapid Transit buses
            Davis, CA Unitrans transit maintenance facility
            Davis/Sacramento CA hydrogen bus technology validation
            Dayton, OH multimodal transportation center
            Daytona, FL intermodal center
            Deerfield Valley, VT Transit Authority
            Demonstration of universal electric transportation 
        subsystems (DUETS), bus system, NM
            Denver, CO Stapleton intermodal center
            Des Moines, IA intermodal facility
            Dothan, AL Wiregrass Transit Authority demand response 
        shuttle vehicles and transit facility
            Duluth, MN Transit Authority community circulation vehicles
            Duluth, MN Transit Authority intelligent transportation 
        systems
            Duluth, MN Transit Authority transit hub
            Dutchess County, NY Loop System buses
            East Hampton, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            El Paso, TX Sun Metro demand response, maintenance, and 
        terminal facility
            Erie, PA Metropolitan Transit Authority buses
            Essex and Middlesex Counties, MA buses
            Eugene, OR Lane Transit District buses
            Everett, WA multimodal transportation center
            Fairbanks, AK intermodal rail/bus transfer facility
            Fayette County, PA intermodal facilities and buses
            Fayetteville, AR University of Arkansas Transit System 
        buses
            Folsom, CA Railroad block project
            Fort Ord, CA multi-modal transportation center
            Fort Dodge, IA Intermodal Facility
            Fort Worth, TX buses
            Frankford, PA Septa transportation center
            Galveston, TX alternative fuel buses
            Gary, IN Transit Consortium buses
            Georgetown University fuel cell bus development and 
        manufacturing
            Gloucester, MA intermodal transportation center
            Grand Forks, Fargo, Bismarck-Mandan and Minot, ND buses
            Grant County, WA buses and vans
            Greater Laconia, NH Transit Agency buses
            Greensboro, NC Transit Authority buses and vans
            Greensboro, NC multimodal center
            Harrison County, MS multimodal center/hybrid electric 
        shuttle buses
            Harrisonburg, VA buses
            Hartford, CT transportation access project
            Healdsburg, CA intermodal facility
            Honolulu, HI bus facility and buses
            Hot Springs, AR transportation depot and plaza
            Humboldt, CA intermodal facility
            Huntington Beach, CA senior center shuttle buses
            Huntington, WV intermodal facility
            Huntsville, AL intermodal space centers--East and West
            Hyannis, MA intermodal transportation center
            Illinois statewide buses and bus-related equipment
            Indianapolis, IN buses
            Iowa/Illinois Transit Consortium bus safety and security
            Iowa statewide bus request
            Ithaca, NY TCAT bus technology improvements
            Jackson, MS buses and facilities
            Jacksonville, FL Transit Authority buses and mini transit 
        center
            Jasper, AL buses
            Johnson County, KS bus maintenance/operations facility
            Kansas City, MO Union Station redevelopment
            Kansas City, MO two-way radios; farebox system; facility 
        repair
            Keene, NH HCS Community Care buses and equipment
            King County/Kingdome, WA pedestrian bridges
            King County, WA Metro transit transfer facilities
            Lackawanna County, PA Transit System buses
            Lake Tahoe, CA intermodal terminal
            Lake Tahoe, CA alternative fuels station
            Lake Tahoe, CA coordinated transit system
            Lakeland, FL Citrus Connection transit vehicles/equipment
            Lane County, OR bus rapid transit
            Lansing, MI CATA bus technology improvements
            Las Vegas, NV RTC South Resort Corridor transit center
            Las Vegas, NV Citizen Area Transit System
            Las Cruces, NM buses, facilities and park and ride
            Lebanon, NH Advance Transit buses
            Lee County, AL buses
            Little Rock, AR Central Arkansas Transit buses
            Little Rock, AR New Harbor Inlet intermodal center
            Livermore-Ardmore Valley, CA automatic vehicle locator 
        program
            Long Island, NY CNG transit vehicles and facilities
            Long Island, NY bus replacement
            Long Beach, NY central bus facility
            Los Angeles County, CA Foothills transit buses
            Los Angeles County, CA Metropolitan Transportation 
        Authority bus replacement
            Los Angeles, CA Foothills transit bus maintenance facility
            Los Angeles, CA San Fernando Valley smart shuttle buses
            Los Angeles, CA Union Station Gateway intermodal transit 
        center
            Los Angeles, CA municipal transit operators consortium
            Louisiana statewide bus request
            Louisville, Kentucky University of Louisville and River 
        City buses
            Lynchburg, VA buses
            Market Street, NJ bus maintenance facility
            Maryland statewide bus facilities and buses
            Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority statewide bus 
        replacement
            Mercer County, PA buses
            Miami-Dade, FL buses
            Miami Beach, FL electric shuttle service
            Michigan statewide buses
            Milwaukee, WI train station improvements
            Milwaukee County, WI buses
            Mineola/Hicksville, NY LIRR intermodal centers
            Minnesota Metro transit buses
            Minnesota I-35 corridor transit stations
            Missouri statewide bus and bus facilities
            Mobile, AL bus replacement
            Mobile, AL intermodal facilities
            Modesto, CA bus maintenance facility
            Monroe County, PA Transportation Authority buses
            Monroe, LA maintenance facility
            Monterey, CA Monterey-Salinas buses
            Montgomery, AL Union Station intermodal center and buses
            Morongo Basin, CA Transit Authority bus facility
            Mount Vernon, WA multimodal center
            New York City, CNG buses and refueling station
            New Orleans, LA RTA maintenance facility
            New York, NY West 72nd St. intermodal station
            New Jersey statewide buses and bus facilities
            New Hampshire statewide transit systems
            New Haven, CT bus facility
            New Bedford/Fall River, MA mobile access to health care
            New Rochelle, NY intermodal center
            New Mexico statewide buses and bus facilities including 
        northern New Mexico park and ride
            New Jersey Transit jitney shuttle buses
            Newark, NJ Morris and Essex Station access and buses
            Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority Hublink, NY
            North Slope Borough, AK buses
            North Carolina statewide buses and bus facilities
            North Dakota statewide buses and bus-related facilities
            Northern Kentucky Area Development District senior citizen 
        buses
            Northstar Corridor, MN intermodal facilities and buses
            Norwich, CT buses
            Oak Park, IL Marion Street multimodal transit center
            OATS Transit, MO
            Ogden, UT Intermodal Center
            Ohio statewide buses and bus facilities
            Oklahoma statewide bus facilities and buses
            Olympia, WA bus replacement
            Olympic Peninsula, WA International Gateway transportation 
        center
            Omnitrans, CA replacement buses
            Oneida County, NY Union Station intermodal facility
            Oneida County, NY buses and equipment
            Orlando, FL Lynx buses and bus facilities
            Orlando, FL Downtown intermodal facility
            Pee Dee, SC Regional Transportation Authority
            Pennsylvania statewide request for small communities
            Perris, CA bus maintenance facility
            Phenix City, AL express transit system
            Philadelphia, PA Market Street bus maintenance facility
            Philadelphia, PA Frankford transportation center
            Philadelphia, PA SEPTA ADA bus acquisition
            Philadelphia, PA 30th Street intermodal station
            Philadelphia, PA regional transportation system for elderly 
        and disabled
            Phoenix, AZ alternatively fueled buses
            Pittsfield, MA intermodal center
            Portland, OR Tri-Met buses
            Potomac and Rappahannock, VA Trans Commission buses
            Poughkeepsie, NY intermodal facility
            Pritchard, AL bus transfer facility
            Providence, RI buses and bus maintenance facility
            Rankin County, MI Intermodal Connector
            Reading, PA BARTA intermodal transportation facility
            Red Rose, PA transit bus terminal
            Reno, NV RTC transit passenger and facility security 
        improvements
            Rensselear, NY intermodal facility
            Rhode Island Public Transit Authority buses
            Rialto, CA Metrolink depot
            Richland, WA Ben Franklin Transit maintenance, operation, 
        and administration facility
            Richmond, VA Main Street station
            Richmond, VA GRTC bus maintenance facility
            Riverhead, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Riverside, CA Transit Agency buses, facilities and ITS 
        applications
            Roanoke, VA buses
            Robinson, PA Towne Center intermodal facility
            Rochester-Genessee, NY CNG buses
            Rochester, NY Rochester central bus facility
            Rogue Valley, OR transit district bus purchase
            Rome, NY intermodal center
            Rural Texas bus replacement
            Sacramento, CA intermodal station
            Sacramento, CA CNG buses
            Salem, OR area mass transit buses
            San Francisco, CA Islais Creek maintenance facility
            San Joaquin, CA buses and facilities
            San Juan, Puerto Rico intermodal access
            Santa Clarita, CA facilities and buses
            Santa Cruz, CA bus facility
            Santa Rosa/Cotati, CA intermodal transportation facilities
            Santa Clara, CA Valley Transportation Authority buses
            Savannah, GA Chatham buses and bus facilities
            Savannah, GA downtown multimodal center
            Seattle RTA buses
            Vancouver, WA C-Tran Seventh Street transit center 
        expansion
            Vancouver, WA I-5 park and ride lots
            Seattle, WA intermodal transportation terminal
            Seward, AK intermodal facility
            Shelter Island, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Sinclair Landing transit facility, WA
            Sioux Falls, SD buses
            Sioux City, IA park and ride bus facility
            Smithtown, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Solano Links, CA intercity transit consortium
            Solano County, CA automated vehicle locator
            Somerset County, PA bus facilities and buses
            Sonoma County, CA intermodal center
            South Bend, IN urban intermodal transportation facility
            South Carolina statewide Virtual Transit Enterprise
            South Dakota computerized bus dispatch system, radios, 
        money boxes, and lift replacements
            South Amboy, NJ regional intermodal transportation 
        initiative
            South Dakota statewide bus facilities and buses
            Southampton, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Southeast Missouri transportation services
            Southold, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Spartanburg, SC intermodal facility
            Springfield, MA Union Station
            Springfield/Branson, MO bus terminal
            St. Louis, MO Bi-state intermodal center
            St. Louis, MO Care-Cab
            St. Louis, MO Bi-State development agency bus replacement
            Suffolk County, NY elderly and disabled buses and vans
            Syracuse, NY CNG buses and facilities
            Tacoma, WA Tacoma Dome station
            Tampa, FL Hartline buses
            Tampa, FL Ybor intermodal station (Hillsborough Area 
        Regional Transit Authority)
            Tennessee statewide bus and facility replacement
            Texas statewide small urban and rural buses
            Tompkins County, NY new technology project
            Towamencin Township, PA intermodal bus transportation 
        center
            Tucson, AZ alternatively fueled buses
            Tuscaloosa, AL intermodal center
            Ukiah, CA transportation center
            Ulster County, NY bus garage and equipment
            University of North Alabama, pedestrian walkways
            Utah Olympics park and ride lots
            Utah Olympics intermodal transportation centers
            Utah Hybrid electric vehicle bus purchase
            Utah Transit Authority/Park City Transit, UT buses
            Utah Transit Authority, UT intermodal facilities
            Utica and Rome, NY bus facilities and buses
            Utica, NY Union Station
            Vermont statewide bus needs
            Volusia County, FL bus systems integrated fleet operations 
        system
            Washington County, PA intermodal facilities
            Washington, Community Transit bus replacement
            Washington statewide bus
            Washington RTA buses
            Washington, D.C. intermodal transportation center
            Washoe County, NV transit improvements
            Waterbury, CT bus facility
            Waukesha, WI downtown transit center
            West Virginia statewide intermodal facility and buses
            Westchester County, NY DOT articulated buses
            Westchester County, NY Bee-Line transit system shuttle 
        buses and fareboxes
            Westfield, MA intermodal center
            Westmoreland County, PA intermodal facility
            Wilkes-Barre, PA intermodal facility
            Williamsport, PA bus facility
            Wilsonville, OR buses and bus shelters
            Windsor, CA intermodal facility
            Wisconsin statewide bus facilities and buses
            Woodland Hills, CA Warner Center transportation hub
            Worcester, MA Union Station intermodal transportation 
        center
            Yonkers, NY intermodal facility
            Yosemite area, CA regional transportation strategies:
Provided further, That, the funds provided for new fixed guideway 
systems shall be made available as follows:
            $10,400,000 for Alaska and/or Hawaii ferry projects;
            $2,500,000 for the Albuquerque/Santa Fe regional multimodal 
        transportation project;
            $10,000,000 for the Albuquerque light rail project;
            $55,000,000 for the Atlanta MARTA North Springs project;
            $2,000,000 for the Austin Capital metro project;
            $1,000,000 for the Baltimore central downtown transit 
        alternatives major investment study;
            $2,000,000 for the Baltimore light rail double-track 
        project;
            $37,600,000 for the BART San Francisco Airport and San Jose 
        Tasman West extensions projects;
            $1,000,000 for the Birmingham, AL light rail project 
        feasibility study;
            $1,000,000 for the Boston North-South rail link project;
            $53,983,000 for the Boston-South Boston Piers MOS-2 
        project;
            $1,500,000 for the Boston urban ring project;
            $4,000,000 for the Burlington-Essex, Vermont commuter rail 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Charleston, SC monobeam rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Charlotte, NC North-South corridor 
        transitway project;
            $19,000,000 for Chicago Metra commuter rail extensions and 
        upgrades;
            $4,000,000 for the Chicago Transit Authority Ravenswood and 
        Douglas branch lines projects;
            $3,600,000 for the Cincinnati Northeast/Northern Kentucky 
        rail line project;
            $1,000,000 for the Cleveland Berea Red Line MIS;
            $4,000,000 for the Cleveland Euclid corridor improvement 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Colorado-North Front Range corridor 
        feasibility study;
            $20,500,000 for the Dallas DART North Central light rail 
        extension project;
            $40,000,000 for the Denver Southwest Corridor project;
            $1,000,000 for the Denver Southeast Corridor multimodal 
        corridor project;
            $10,000,000 for the Fort Lauderdale, FL Tri-County commuter 
        rail project;
            $12,000,000 for the Fort Worth, TX Railtran project;
            $1,000,000 for the Galveston, Texas rail trolley system 
        extension project;
            $2,000,000 for the Harrisburg, PA capitol area transit/
        corridor one project;
            $1,000,000 for the Hartford, CT light rail project;
            $1,000,000 for a major investment analysis of Honolulu 
        transit alternatives;
            $59,670,000 for the Houston Metro Regional Bus plan 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for a Jacksonville, FL light rail and bus 
        corridors study;
            $1,500,000 for the Johnson County, KS I-35 commuter rail 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Kansas City, MO commuter rail study;
            $1,000,000 for the Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee, WI commuter 
        rail project;
            $250,000 for the King County, WA Elliott Bay water taxi;
            $2,000,000 for the Knoxville, TN transit program project;
            $2,000,000 for the Largo, MD Metro Blue Line extension 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Las Vegas resort corridor fixed guideway 
        system project;
            $40,000,000 for the LIRR East Side access project, New 
        York;
            $4,000,000 for the Little Rock, AR Arkansas River rail 
        project;
            $30,000,000 for the Los Angeles MOS-3 project, of which 
        $24,000,000 shall be made available from funds provided in 
        Public Law 105-66 under this head for this project: Provided 
        further, That such sum shall be available to the grantee 
        without restriction;
            $17,000,000 for MARC commuter rail improvements;
            $2,200,000 for the Memphis Medical Center rail extension 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Miami Metrorail Palmetto extension 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Miami Metro-Dade Transit east-west 
        corridor project;
            $8,000,000 for the Miami-North corridor transitway to 
        Broward County project;
            $4,500,000 for the Morgantown, WV fixed guideway 
        modernization project;
            $2,500,000 for the Nashville regional commuter rail 
        project;
            $70,000,000 for the New Jersey urban core Hudson-Bergen LRT 
        project;
            $12,000,000 for the New Jersey urban core Newark-Elizabeth 
        rail link project;
            $1,000,000 for the New London, CT waterfront access 
        project;
            $12,000,000 for the New York City, Kennedy class ferryboat 
        replacement project;
            $2,000,000 for the Niagara Frontier Transportation 
        Authority light rail car rebuild project;
            $6,000,000 for the Northern Indiana South Shore commuter 
        rail project;
            $20,000,000 for the Orlando Lynx light rail project;
            $500,000 for the Philadelphia to Pittsburgh high-speed 
        magnetic levitation project;
            $6,500,000 for the Philadelphia-Reading SEPTA Schuylkill 
        Valley Metro project;
            $1,000,000 for the Philadelphia SEPTA Cross County Metro 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the Pittsburgh Allegheny County Stage II 
        light rail project;
            $5,000,000 for the Pittsburgh Airborne Shuttle System 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Pittsburgh North Shore central business 
        district transit options major investment study;
            $26,700,000 for the Portland Westside and South-North light 
        rail projects;
            $13,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Link light rail 
        project;
            $47,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Sounder commuter rail 
        project;
            $14,000,000 for the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Triangle 
        Transit project;
            $23,480,000 for the Sacramento south corridor LRT project;
            $70,000,000 for the Salt Lake City South LRT project: 
        Provided further, That the non-governmental share for these 
        funds and for funds made available for this project under 
        Public Law 105-66, shall be determined in accordance with 
        section 3030(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
        the 21st Century, as amended (Public Law 105-178);
            $8,000,000 for the Salt Lake City/Airport to University 
        (West-East) light rail project: Provided further, That the non-
        governmental share for these funds shall be determined in 
        accordance with Section 3030(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Transportation 
        Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended (Public Law 105-
        178);
            $1,000,000 for the San Diego Mission Valley and Mid-Coast 
        Corridors;
            $19,967,000 for the San Juan Tren Urbano;
            $2,000,000 for the Santa Fe rail link project;
            $250,000 for the Sioux City micro rail trolley system;
            $1,000,000 for the South DeKalb-Lindbergh Corridor LRT 
        project;
            $200,000 for the Southeast Michigan commuter rail viability 
        study;
            $10,000,000 for the St. George Ferry, NY terminal project;
            $35,000,000 for the St. Louis Metro link/St. Clair County 
        LRT extension project;
            $500,000 for the St. Louis-Jefferson City-Kansas City, MO 
        commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Stamford, CT fixed guideway connector;
            $1,000,000 for the Tampa Bay regional rail project; and
            $15,000,000 for the Whitehall ferry terminal project.

                       Mass Transit Capital Fund

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 
5338(b) administered by the Federal Transit Administration, 
$1,805,600,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended.

                          Discretionary Grants

               (highway trust fund, mass transit account)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized in Public Law 102-240 under 
49 U.S.C. 5338(b)(1), $392,000,000 are rescinded.

                 Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out Section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $10,000,000: Provided, That no more than 
$50,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these purposes: 
Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this head, not 
more than $10,000,000 shall be used for grants for reverse commute 
projects.

             Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 14 of 
Public Law 96-184 and Public Law 101-551, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operation and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $11,496,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                     Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $29,000,000, of which $574,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $3,460,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                            Pipeline Safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oilspill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$32,500,000, of which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2001; and of which $29,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $16,919,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That in addition to amounts made 
available for the Pipeline Safety Fund, $1,000,000 shall be available 
for grants to States for the development and establishment of one-call 
notification systems and shall be derived from amounts previously 
collected under 49 U.S.C. 60301, and that an additional $659,000 in 
amounts previously collected under 49 U.S.C. 60301 is available to 
conduct general functions of the pipeline safety program.

                     Emergency Preparedness Grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001: Provided, That not more than $11,000,000 
shall be made available for obligation in fiscal year 1999 from amounts 
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d): Provided further, That 
no such funds shall be made available for obligation by individuals 
other than the Secretary of Transportation, or his designee.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$42,720,000.

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $13,853,000: Provided, 
That $2,000,000 in fees collected in fiscal year 1999 by the Surface 
Transportation Board pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701 shall be made available 
to this appropriation in fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That any 
fees received in excess of $2,000,000 in fiscal year 1999 shall remain 
available until expended, but shall not be available for obligation 
until October 1, 1999.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $3,847,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-18; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902) 
$53,473,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                             Emergency Fund

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the National 
Transportation Safety Board for accident investigations, and for 
oversight and provision of services to families of victims of 
transportation disasters, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for 
a GS-18; uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1999 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. Funds appropriated under this Act for expenditures by the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall be available: (1) except as 
otherwise authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) for expenses of primary 
and secondary schooling for dependents of Federal Aviation 
Administration personnel stationed outside the continental United 
States at costs for any given area not in excess of those of the 
Department of Defense for the same area, when it is determined by the 
Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the locality are 
unable to provide adequately for the education of such dependents; and 
(2) for transportation of said dependents between schools serving the 
area that they attend and their places of residence when the Secretary, 
under such regulations as may be prescribed, determines that such 
schools are not accessible by public means of transportation on a 
regular basis.
    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 91 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. The Secretary of Transportation may enter into grants, 
cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local 
government, any educational institution, and any other entity in 
execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the 
Defense Conversion, Reinvestment and Transition Assistance Act of 1992 
and related legislation: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
section may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 309. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 310. (a) For fiscal year 1999, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        and amounts authorized for the highway use tax evasion program 
        and the Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highway 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
                construction programs (other than sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for sections set forth in paragraphs (1) 
                through (7) of subsection (b) and sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for section 105 of title 23, United States 
                Code, equal to the amount referred to in subsection 
                (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the aggregate of the 
                amounts not distributed under paragraph (1) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for section 117 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to high priority projects program), 
        section 201 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 
        1965, the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, 
        and $2,000,000,000 for such fiscal year under section 105 of 
        the Transportation Efficiency Act for the 21st Century 
        (relating to minimum guarantee) so that the amount of 
        obligation authority available for each of such sections is 
        equal to the amount determined by multiplying the ratio 
        determined under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be 
        appropriated for such section (except in the case of section 
        105, $2,000,000,000) for such fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under title 23, United State Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined 
        under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated 
        for such program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highway and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for 
        the minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 
147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under 
section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 
131(b) and 131(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; 
(5) under sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and 
Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under section 1103 
through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991; (7) under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Transportation 
Efficiency Act for the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 
23, United States Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 
for such fiscal year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144, of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Efficiency Act 
for the 21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under 
section 1015 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 (105 
Stat. 1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapters 3 and 5 of 
title 23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made 
available for such programs under such limitation shall remain 
available for a period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds 
(1) that are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
Federal-aid highway programs (other than the program under section 160 
of title 23, United States Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and chapter 4 of title 23, 
United States Code, and (2) that the Secretary determines will not be 
allocated to the States, and will not be available for obligation, in 
such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation limitation for 
such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall be made in the 
same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority under subsection 
(a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for any purposes 
described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    (f) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) for a section set forth in subsection 
(a)(4) shall remain available until used for obligation of funds for 
such section and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
construction programs for future fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel 
traffic safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa 
Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic 
Separation Scheme.
    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) instrument landing systems (along with associated approach 
lighting equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to 
FAA design and performance specifications, the purchase of which was 
assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, airport development aid 
program or airport improvement program grant. The FAA shall accept such 
equipment, which shall thereafter be operated and maintained by the FAA 
in accordance with agency criteria.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that: (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in 
excess of $10,000,000 in any one year of the contract; or (2) includes 
a cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's 
liability; or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which 
the Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 316. Section 218 of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence by striking ``the south 
                Alaskan border'' and inserting ``Haines'' in lieu 
                thereof;
                    (B) in the third sentence by striking ``highway'' 
                and inserting ``highway or the Alaska Marine Highway 
                System'' in lieu thereof;
                    (C) in the fourth sentence by striking ``any other 
                fiscal year thereafter'' and inserting ``any other 
                fiscal year thereafter, including any portion of any 
                other fiscal year thereafter, prior to the date of the 
                enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
                Century'' in lieu thereof;
                    (D) in the fifth sentence by striking 
                ``construction of such highways until an agreement'' 
                and inserting ``construction of the portion of such 
                highways that are in Canada until an agreement'' in 
                lieu thereof; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by inserting ``in Canada'' after 
        ``undertaken''.
    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except 
for fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this 
Act under ``Federal Transit Administration, capital investment grants'' 
for projects specified in this Act or identified in reports 
accompanying this Act not obligated by September 30, 2001 and other 
recoveries, shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 
5309.
    Sec. 318. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 1998, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 319. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 350 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 320. Funds provided in this Act for the Transportation 
Administrative Service Center (TASC) shall be reduced by $10,500,000, 
which limits fiscal year 1999 TASC obligational authority for elements 
of the Department of Transportation funded in this Act to no more than 
$165,215,000: Provided, That such reductions from the budget request 
shall be allocated by the Department of Transportation to each 
appropriations account in proportion to the amount included in each 
account for the Transportation Administrative Service Center.
    Sec. 321. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' account and 
to the Federal Railroad Administration's ``Railroad Safety'' account, 
except for State rail safety inspectors participating in training 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 322. None of the funds in this Act may be used to impose any 
government-mandated conditions or requirements with regard to benefits, 
labor or employment practices or working conditions, which are not 
expressly authorized as to public works by Federal or State statutes, 
governing any project wholly or partially funded under this Act or on 
any applicant for any federally funded grant or award.
    Sec. 323. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the purpose of promulgating or enforcing any regulation that has 
the practical effect of (a) requiring more than one attendant during 
unloading of liquefied compressed gases, or (b) preventing the 
attendant from monitoring the customer's liquefied compressed gas 
storage tank during unloading.
    Sec. 324. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited 
to the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall not be 
subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and 
highway safety construction.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be used for grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation: 
Provided, That this provision shall not apply upon the public 
disclosure by Amtrak of its national average per passenger loss during 
the previous fiscal year for which a full fiscal year's data is 
available: Provided further, That Amtrak shall determine the national 
average per passenger loss by using revenues and fully allocated 
expenses of core intercity passenger rail service and such 
determination shall be verified by the United States General Accounting 
Office: Provided further, That the national average per passenger loss 
figure for each year shall be prominently displayed on every passenger 
ticket sold by any means or mechanism along with a specific reference 
to the American taxpayers' support for Amtrak.
    Sec. 326. None of the funds in this Act shall, in the absence of 
express authorization by Congress, be used directly or indirectly to 
pay for any personal service, advertisement, telegram, telephone, 
letter, printed or written matter, or other device, intended or 
designed to influence in any manner a Member of Congress, to favor or 
oppose, by vote or otherwise, any legislation or appropriation by 
Congress, whether before or after the introduction of any bill or 
resolution proposing such legislation or appropriation: Provided, That 
this shall not prevent officers or employees of the Department of 
Transportation or related agencies funded in this Act from 
communicating to Members of Congress on the request of any Member or to 
Congress, through the proper official channels, requests for 
legislation or appropriations which they deem necessary for the 
efficient conduct of the public business.
    Sec. 327. Not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds provided in this 
Act for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees.
    Sec. 328. Bulk Fuel Storage Tanks. (a) Transfer of Funds.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the remainder of the 
balance in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability Fund that is transferred 
and deposited into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund under section 
8102(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (43 U.S.C. 1653 
note) after June 16, 1998 shall be used in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Use of Interest Only.--The interest produced from the 
investment of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability Fund balance that is 
transferred and deposited into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund under 
section 8102(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (43 U.S.C. 
1653 note) after June 16, 1998 shall be transferred annually by the 
National Pollution Funds Center to the Denali Commission for a program, 
to be developed in consultation with the Coast Guard, to repair or 
replace bulk fuel storage tanks in Alaska which are not in compliance 
with federal law, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or State 
law.
    (c) TAPS Payment to Alaska Dedicated to Bulk Fuel Storage Tank 
Repair and Replacement.--Section 8102(a)(2)(B)(i) of Public Law 101-380 
(43 U.S.C. 1653 note) is amended by inserting immediately before the 
semicolon, ``, which shall be used to repair and replace bulk fuel 
storage tanks in Alaska so that such tanks comply with this Act and 
with other applicable federal and state laws''.
    Sec. 329. No funds other than those appropriated to the Surface 
Transportation Board or fees collected by the Board shall be used for 
conducting the activities of the Board.
    Sec. 330. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds 
        made available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress 
        that entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, 
        the head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient 
        of the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 331. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, receipts, in 
amounts determined by the Secretary, collected from users of fitness 
centers operated by or for the Department of Transportation shall be 
available to support the operation and maintenance of those facilities.
    Sec. 332. Notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 41742, no essential air service 
shall be provided to communities in the 48 contiguous States that are 
located fewer than 70 highway miles from the nearest large and medium 
hub airport, or that require a rate of subsidy per passenger in excess 
of $200 unless such point is greater than 210 miles from the nearest 
large or medium hub airport.
    Sec. 333. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department from travel management centers, 
charge card programs, the subleasing of building space, and 
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations of the 
Department and allocated to elements of the Department using fair and 
equitable criteria and such funds shall be available until December 31, 
1999.
    Sec. 334. Land Conveyance, Coast Guard Station Ocracoke, North 
Carolina. (a) Authority To Convey.--The Secretary of Transportation may 
convey, without consideration, to the State of North Carolina (in this 
section referred to as the ``State''), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, together with 
any improvements thereon, in Ocracoke, North Carolina, consisting of 
such portion of the Coast Guard Station Ocracoke, North Carolina, as 
the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the conveyance.
    (b) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to the following conditions:
            (1) That the State accept the property to be conveyed under 
        that subsection subject to such easements or rights of way in 
        favor of the United States as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate for--
                    (A) utilities;
                    (B) access to and from the property;
                    (C) the use of the boat launching ramp on the 
                property; and
                    (D) the use of pier space on the property by search 
                and rescue assets.
            (2) That the State maintain the property in a manner so as 
        to preserve the usefulness of the easements or rights of way 
        referred to in paragraph (1).
            (3) That the State utilize the property for transportation, 
        education, environmental, or other public purposes.
    (c) Reversion.--(1) If the Secretary determines at any time that 
the property conveyed under subsection (a) is not to be used in 
accordance with subsection (b), all right, title, and interest in and 
to the property, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to 
the United States, and the United States shall have the right of 
immediate entry thereon.
    (2) Upon reversion under paragraph (1), the property shall be under 
the administrative jurisdiction of the Administrator of General 
Services.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property conveyed under subsection (a), and any 
easements or rights of way granted under subsection (b)(1), shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the State.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions with respect to the conveyance 
under subsection (a), and any easements or rights of way granted under 
subsection (b)(1), as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.
    Sec. 335. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, funds 
appropriated in this or any other Act intended for highway 
demonstration projects, railroad-highway crossings demonstration 
projects or railroad relocation projects in Augusta, Georgia are 
available for implementation of a project consisting of modifications 
and additions to streets, railroads, and related improvements in the 
vicinity of the grade crossing of the CSX railroad and 15th Street in 
Augusta, Georgia.
    Sec. 336. (a) In General.--Section 31305(b) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3) Any individual may operate a commercial motor vehicle solely 
within the borders of a State if the individual--
            ``(A) has passed written and driving tests to operate the 
        vehicle that meet such minimum standards as may be prescribed 
        by the State; and
            ``(B) has a driver's license that is not suspended, 
        revoked, or canceled.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 31305(b)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting 
``paragraphs (2) and (3)''.
    (c) Penalties.--Section 31311(a)(13)(A) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``, except as provided in paragraph (2) 
or (3) of section 31305(b) of this title'' before the semicolon.
    Sec. 337. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no approval 
from the Secretary (other than review of the project final design) 
shall be required to construct additional entrances and exits between 
exits 57 and 58 for a pilot project to demonstrate a streamlined 
process for project implementation on Interstate 495 in Suffolk County, 
New York provided such entrances and exits are designed, constructed or 
otherwise authorized by the responsible state transportation agency 
through the appropriate state environmental process.
    Sec. 338. Notwithstanding and other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall enter into agreements with the New York State 
Department of Transportation that would allow automotive service 
stations or other commercial establishments for serving motor vehicle 
users to be sited and constructed in the vicinity of exit 51 and either 
exits 66, 67, or 68 of the Long Island Expressway (Interstate 495) in 
Suffolk County.
    Sec. 339. (a) In General.--Section 30113 of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or passenger 
                motor vehicles from a bumper standard prescribed under 
                chapter 325 of this title,'' after ``a motor vehicle 
                safety standard prescribed under this chapter''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``or chapter 
                325 of this title (as applicable)'' after ``this 
                chapter'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``, or a bumper 
        standard prescribed under chapter 325 of this title,'' after 
        ``motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this 
        chapter''; and
            (3) in subsection (h), by inserting ``or bumper standard 
        prescribed under chapter 325 of this title'' after ``each motor 
        vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 32502(c) of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``any part of a standard'' and inserting ``all 
                or any part of a standard'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) a passenger motor vehicle for which an application 
        for an exemption under section 30013(b) of this title has been 
        filed in accordance with the requirements of that section.''.
            (2) Section 32506(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``and section 32502 of this title'' after 
        ``Except as provided in this section''.
    Sec. 340. Of the funds made available under this Act for capital 
investment grants, $20,000,000 is provided for the Norfolk-Virginia 
Beach Corridor project; $1,500,000 is provided for the Massachusetts 
North Shore Corridor project; $5,000,000 is provided for the San Diego 
Mission Valley and Mid-Coast Corridor projects; $3,300,000 is provided 
for the Hartford, CT light rail project; $2,700,000 is provided for the 
Stamford, CT fixed guideway connector; and $500,000 is provided for the 
Old Saybrook-Hartford rail extension project.
    Sec. 341. (a) Limitation on Funds Used to Enforce Regulations 
Regarding Animal Fats and Vegetable Oils.--None of the funds made 
available by this Act or subsequent Acts may be used by the Coast Guard 
to issue, implement, or enforce a regulation or to establish an 
interpretation or guideline under the Edible Oil Regulatory Reform Act 
(Public Law 104-55) or the amendments made by that Act, that does not 
recognize and provide for, with respect to fats, oils, and greases (as 
described in that Act, or the amendments made by that Act) differences 
in (1) physical, chemical, biological and other relevant properties; 
and (2) environmental effects.
    (B) Deadline for Promulgation of Regulations.--Not later than March 
31, 1999, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue regulations 
amending 33 C.F.R. 154 to comply with the requirements of Public Law 
104-55.
    Sec. 342. Amendment to Subsection 1110(a) of Public Law 96-487, 95 
Stat. 2464.--Amend Subsection 1110(a) of Public Law 96-487, 95 Stat. 
2565 as follows: strike ``airplanes'' and insert in lieu thereof 
``aircraft''.
    Sec. 343. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under section 1503 of Public Law 105-178 may be used to 
support a direct loan of $85,000,000 to the city of Reno, Nevada for 
the Reno Transportation Corridor project, including the grade 
separation of at-grade rail lines and cross streets with a primarily 
below-grade corridor.
    Sec. 344. Within the $25,511,000,000 obligation limitation on the 
federal-aid highway program, funds allocated or authorized from the 
highway trust fund, in Public Law 105-178 for Miller Highway in New 
York City, New York shall be made available to the State of New York 
subject to the State and local planning and environmental review 
process.
    Sec. 345. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the Secretary of 
Transportation is hereby authorized to waive repayment of any Federal-
aid highway funds expended on the construction of high occupancy 
vehicle lanes or auxiliary lanes on I-287 in the State of New Jersey. 
Such waiver shall not be granted by the Secretary until such time as 
the Secretary is assured by the State of New Jersey that removal of the 
high occupancy vehicle restrictions on I-287 is in the public interest.
    Sec. 346. Modification of Substitute Project in Wisconsin. Section 
1211 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Modification of Substitute Project in Wisconsin.--Section 
1045(a) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
(as amended by subsection (n) of this section) is amended in paragraph 
(2)--
            ``(1) by inserting `after consultation with appropriate 
        local government officials,' after `Wisconsin,'; and
            ``(2) by striking `shall' and inserting `may'.''.
    Sec. 347. Discretionary grants funds for bus and bus-related 
facilities made available under Public Law 105-66 and its accompanying 
conference report for the Virtual Transit Enterprise project may be 
used to fund any aspect of the Virtual Transit Enterprise integration 
of information project in South Carolina.
    Sec. 348. Section 3021 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the State of 
        Vermont'' after ``the State of Oklahoma''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by inserting ``and the State 
        of Vermont'' after ``within the State of Oklahoma''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.
                                                       Calendar No. 468

105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2307

                          [Report No. 105-249]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 15, 1998

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar