[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2312 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 470
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2312

                          [Report No. 105-251]

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 15, 1998

   Mr. Campbell, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $150,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate; $120,671,000: Provided, That 
the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall be funded at no less than 
$6,560,800: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

                         Automation Enhancement

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$28,990,000, of which $8,000,000 shall be available to the United 
States Customs Service for the Customs Modernization project, of which 
$5,400,000 shall be available to the Departmental Offices for the 
International Trade Data System, and of which $15,590,000 shall be 
available to the Departmental Offices to modernize its information 
technology infrastructure, for modernizing Treasury's human resource 
systems, and for business solution software: Provided, That these funds 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That these 
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations, Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this 
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be 
used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service 
appropriations for Information Systems: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated for the Customs Modernization project may be 
transferred to the United States Customs Service or obligated until the 
Treasury's Chief Information Officer, through the Treasury Investment 
Review Board, concurs on the plan and milestone schedule for the 
deployment of the system: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Customs Modernization project may be obligated for 
any major system investments prior to the development of an 
architecture which is compliant with the Treasury Information Systems 
Architecture Framework (TISAF) and the General Accounting Office 
certifies to Congress the establishment of measures to enforce 
compliance with the architecture: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $8,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated 
and expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the 
Treasury; $30,678,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, $27,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided shall be available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement; $23,670,000: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure personal 
services contracts: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$600,000 shall be provided for the Gateway program.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, as follows:
    (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $117,761,000; of which 
$1,800,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for lab equipment; of which $1,400,000 shall be available to 
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, including $800,000 for 
cyberpayment studies, $100,000 for money laundering regulations, 
$300,000 for Suspicious Activity Reporting form data analysis, and 
$200,000 for training for Federal, State and local law enforcement; of 
which $158,000 shall be available to the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for equipment replacement needs; $15,403,000 shall be 
available to the United States Secret Service, including $5,000,000 for 
counterfeiting investigations, $7,732,000 for the 2000 candidate/
nominee protection program, and $2,671,000 for forensic and related 
support of investigations of missing and exploited children, of which 
$671,000 shall be available as a grant for activities related to the 
investigations of exploited children and shall remain available until 
expended; of which $45,000,000 shall be available for the Interagency 
Law Enforcement for interagency crime and drug enforcement; and of 
which $54,000,000 shall be made available for the United States Customs 
Service for the purchase of non-intrusive inspection technology, 
including $10,000,000 for a high energy container inspection system for 
sea-going containers, $3,400,000 for the automated targeting system, 
and $40,600,000 to purchase equipment for the Southern land border;
    (2) As authorized by section 32401, $13,239,000 to the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement through grants, 
cooperative agreements, or contracts to local governments for Gang 
Resistance Education and Training: Provided, That notwithstanding 
sections 32401 and 310001, such funds shall be allocated to State and 
local law enforcement and prevention organizations;
    (3) As authorized by section 180103, $1,000,000 to the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center for specialized training for rural law 
enforcement officers.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and 
enhancing community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed 
$9,500 for official reception and representation expenses; room and 
board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
$66,251,000, of which up to $13,450,000 for materials and support costs 
of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept 
and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for: training United States Postal 
Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police officers; State and 
local government law enforcement training on a space-available basis; 
training of foreign law enforcement officials on a space-available 
basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this appropriation, except 
that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary for law enforcement 
training activities in foreign countries undertaken pursuant to section 
801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, 
Public Law 104-32; training of private sector security officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training sponsored by the Center: 
Provided further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from agencies receiving training 
sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, except that 
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide training for the Gang Resistance Education and Training 
program to Federal and non-Federal personnel at any facility in 
partnership with ATF: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$15,360,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the detection and investigation of 
individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including 
cooperative efforts with State and local law enforcement, $30,900,000, 
of which $7,827,000 shall remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$196,490,000, of which not to exceed $13,235,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2001 for information systems modernization 
initiatives: Provided, That of the amount provided, $4,500,000 shall 
remain available until expended for postage and shall not be obligated 
before September 30, 1999: Provided further, That, pursuant to 39 
U.S.C. 3206(a), funds shall continue to be provided to the United 
States Postal Service for postage due: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 2000 
conversion costs pending the availability of funding through emergency 
appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                  debt collection improvement account

    To make payments by the Secretary of the Treasury to reimburse 
agencies for qualified expenses, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720C, not 
to exceed $3,000,000, to be derived from increased agency collections 
of delinquent debt, as authorized by such provision, and to remain 
available until September 30, 2001.

                         federal financing bank

    For liquidation of certain debts to the United States Treasury 
incurred by the Federal Financing Bank pursuant to section 9(b) of the 
Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, $2,854,000,000.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 650 vehicles for police-
type use for replacement only and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
hire of aircraft; services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be 
determined by the Director; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where an assignment to the National Response 
Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson incident requires 
an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to remain overnight at 
his or her post of duty; not to exceed $12,500 for official reception 
and representation expenses; for training of State and local law 
enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, including training 
in connection with the training and acquisition of canines for 
explosives and fire accelerants detection; and provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$529,489,000, of which $27,000,000 may be used for the Youth Crime Gun 
Interdiction Initiative; of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 
924(d)(2): Provided, That such funds shall be available for the 
equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for 
official use by a State or local law enforcement agency if the 
conveyance will be used in drug-related joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, and 
other similar costs of State and local law enforcement officers that 
are incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms: Provided further, That no funds made available by this or 
any other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other 
agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 
1998: Provided further, That of the funds made available, $4,500,000 
shall be made available for the expansion of the National Tracing 
Center: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be 
available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection with 
consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the Treasury, 
the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of 
firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, 
That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay administrative 
expenses or the compensation of any officer or employee of the United 
States to implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to 
change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or 
remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 
1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and act upon 
applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That no funds in 
this Act may be used to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any 
State or local authority who has obtained similar equipment through a 
Federal grant or subsidy unless the State or local authority agrees to 
return that equipment or to repay that grant or subsidy to the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That no funds under this Act may be used 
to electronically retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
923(g)(4) by name or any personal identification code: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to be used 
for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of funding 
through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to 
the President, Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                     United States Customs Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 985 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $30,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service; $1,630,273,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject 
to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1985 (``COBRA''), as amended (19 U.S.C. 
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that Account; of the total, not to 
exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for rental space in 
connection with preclearance operations, and not to exceed $4,000,000 
shall be available until expended for research, not to exceed 
$5,000,000 shall be available until expended for conducting special 
operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081, and up to $8,000,000 shall be 
available until expended for the procurement of automation 
infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and installation: 
Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, an additional $2,400,000 shall be 
made available for staffing and resources for the child pornography 
cybersmuggling initiative: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $1,200,000 shall be available to transfer to the Office of 
the Under Secretary of the Treasury for the oversight of the Customs 
Integrity Awareness Program: Provided further, That $500,000 shall be 
available to fund the expansion of services at the Vermont World Trade 
Office: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the fiscal year aggregate overtime limitation prescribed in 
subsection 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 
267) shall be $30,000: Provided further, That of the amount provided, 
$28,480,000 shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

 operations, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs, the operations of which include: the interdiction of 
narcotics and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and 
other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement or 
administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts; $98,488,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 1999 without the prior approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $3,200,000 shall not be available for obligation for P3 
annualization until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, $20,100,000 shall not be available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999.

                   harbor maintenance fee collection

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt

                     administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $176,500,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses; and, of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2001 for information systems modernization initiatives: Provided, 
That the sum appropriated herein from the General Fund for fiscal year 
1999 shall be reduced by not more than $4,400,000 as definitive 
security issue fees and Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance 
fees are collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $172,100,000, and in 
addition, $20,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and personnel expenses 
for financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 102 of 
Public Law 101-380: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provisions of law, effective upon enactment and thereafter, the Bureau 
of the Public Debt shall be fully and directly reimbursed by the funds 
described in Public Law 101-136, title I, section 104, 103 Stat. 789 
for costs and services performed by the Bureau in the administration of 
such funds: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; programs to match 
information returns and tax returns; management services; rent and 
utilities; and inspection; including purchase (not to exceed 150 for 
replacement only for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
$3,077,353,000, of which up to $3,700,000 shall be for the Tax 
Counseling for the Elderly Program, and of which not to exceed $25,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $105,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for postage and shall not be obligated before September 30, 
1999: Provided further, That, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3206(a), funds 
shall continue to be provided to the United States Postal Service for 
postage due.

                          tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; the 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850), and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $3,164,399,000: Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$175,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 
1999.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $143,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997.

                          information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,329,486,000, which shall be available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That of the amount provided, $68,700,000 
shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to 
be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of 
funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems and 
Related Expenses''.

                   information technology investments

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$137,569,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, for: the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisition, including 
contractual costs associated with operations as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided, That none of these funds is available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That none of these funds 
shall be obligated until the Internal Revenue Service and the 
Department of the Treasury submits to Congress for approval, a plan for 
expenditure.

                       Administrative Provisions

                        internal revenue service

    Section 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain a training 
program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained 
in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in 
cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 103. The funds provided in this Act for the Internal Revenue 
Service shall be used to provide, as a minimum, the fiscal year 1995 
level of service, staffing, and funding for Taxpayer Services.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
used in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax 
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of 
officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection 
with such collection, including any private sector employees under 
contract to the Internal Revenue Service, complies with subsection (a) 
of section 805 (relating to communications in connection with debt 
collection), and section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the 
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 105. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information.
    Sec. 106. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement 
of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and 
allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff to 
improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigations in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase not to exceed 705 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 675 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is obtained in 
advance from the Senate Committee on Appropriations; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed 
$50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year; $584,902,000: 
Provided, That the $6,000,000 provided for the acquisition of the 
Armored Primary Limousines is not obligated before September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, $7,860,000 shall not be 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, 
That of the amount provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 
2000 conversion costs pending the availability of funding through 
emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the 
President, Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

      acquisition, construction, improvement, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $8,068,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1999, shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1999 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, United States Customs Service, and United States Secret 
Service may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector 
General, Financial Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, 
may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 115. The Secretary is authorized to promote the benefits of 
and encourage the use of electronic tax administration programs, as 
they become available, through the use of mass communications and other 
means. Additionally, the Secretary may implement procedures to pay 
appropriate incentives to commercial concerns for electronic filing 
services: Provided, That such payment may not be made unless the 
electronic filing service is provided without charge to the taxpayer 
whose return is so filed: Provided further, That the Internal Revenue 
Service shall assure the security of all electronic transmissions and 
the full protection of the privacy of taxpayer data.
    Sec. 116. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) and the 
Department of the Treasury shall award a contract for Solicitation No. 
BEP-97-13 (TN) which will permit an uninterrupted source of currency 
paper upon the expiration of the contract for Solicitation 97-10 on 
September 5, 1999 unless otherwise directed by the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 117. Exception to Immunity From Attachment or Execution. (a) 
Section 1610 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
but not limited to section 208(f) of the Foreign Missions Act (22 
U.S.C. 4308(f)), and except as provided in subparagraph (B), any 
property with respect to which financial transactions are prohibited or 
regulated pursuant to section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 5(b)), section 620(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2370(a)), sections 202 and 203 of the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1702), or any other 
proclamation, order, regulation, or license issued pursuant thereto, 
shall be subject to execution or attachment in aid of execution of any 
judgment relating to a claim for which a foreign state (including any 
agency or instrumentality or such state) claiming such property is not 
immune under section 1605(a)(7).
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if, at the time the property 
is expropriated or seized by the foreign state, the property has been 
held in title by a natural person or, if held in trust, has been held 
for the benefit of a natural person or persons.
    ``(2)(A) At the request of any party in whose favor a judgment has 
been issued with respect to a claim for which the foreign state is not 
immune under section 1605(a)(7), the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of State shall fully, promptly, and effectively assist any 
judgment creditor or any court that has issued any such judgment in 
identifying, locating, and executing against the property of that 
foreign state or any agency or instrumentality of such state.
    ``(B) In providing such assistance, the Secretaries--
            ``(i) may provide such information to the court under seal; 
        and
            ``(ii) shall provide the information in a manner sufficient 
        to allow the court to direct the United States Marshall's 
        office to promptly and effectively execute against that 
        property.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1606 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after ``punitive damages'' the following: 
``, except any action under section 1605(a)(7) or 1610(f)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply to any claim for which a foreign state is not immune under 
section 1605(a)(7) of title 28, United States Code, arising before, on, 
or after the date of enactment of this Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                  Payments to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $71,195,000, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds 
provided shall be available for obligation until October 1, 1999: 
Provided further, That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind 
shall continue to be free: Provided further, That 6-day delivery and 
rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any individual participating in a State 
or local program of child support enforcement, a fee for information 
requested or provided concerning an address of a postal customer: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post offices 
in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1999.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                     compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; 
$250,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President; $52,344,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $8,691,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial 
events, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
political events, and the portion of each such amount that has been 
reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,512,000.

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$334,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,666,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$4,032,000.

                       National Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,806,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles $29,140,000: Provided, That of the amount 
provided, funds are authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion 
costs pending the availability of funding through emergency 
appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses''.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $60,617,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for the Office of 
Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for testimony 
of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the House and Senate 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That the Director of OMB submit a report within 180 days of 
enactment to the Senate Committee on Appropriations: (1) evaluating the 
implementation of specific government-wide procedures for making 
federally funded research results (including all underlying data and 
supplementary materials) available as appropriate to the public unless 
such research results are currently protected from disclosure under 
current law; and (2) make a determination based on this evaluation for 
the need for additional or revised guidance: Provided further, That OMB 
is directed to submit a report to the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations and Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs that: (1) 
identifies annual five percent reductions in paperwork expected in 
fiscal year 1999 and fiscal year 2000; and (2) issues guidance on the 
requirements of 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801(a)(1) and (3); sections 804(3), and 
808(2), including a standard new rule reporting form for use under 
section 801(a)(1)(A)-(B).

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision 
of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$48,042,000, of which $30,100,000 shall remain available until 
expended, consisting of $1,100,000 for policy research and evaluation 
and $16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects, and $13,000,000 for 
the continued operation of the technology transfer program: Provided, 
That the $16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center 
shall be available for transfer to other Federal departments or 
agencies: Provided further, That the Office is authorized to accept, 
hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for the 
purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $171,007,000 
for drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for 
each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
$5,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area in Dallas/Fort Worth and East Texas and $1,000,000 
shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Area in New England, should the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy determine that these locations meet the designated 
criteria, and of which $1,500,000 shall be used to expand the 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, and of which 
$1,500,000 shall be used to continue the Rocky Mountain methamphetamine 
demonstration program, of which no less than $90,630,000 shall be 
transferred to State and local entities for drug control activities, 
which shall be obligated within 120 days of the date of enactment of 
this Act and up to $80,370,000 may be transferred to Federal agencies 
and departments at a rate to be determined by the Director: Provided, 
That funding shall be provided for existing High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Areas at no less than the fiscal year 1998 level.

                        special forfeiture fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 100-690, as amended, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $175,000,000 shall be to support a national media campaign to 
reduce and prevent drug use among young Americans: Provided further, 
That (1) ONDCP will require a pro-bono match commitment up-front as 
part of its media buy from each and every buyer of ad time and space, 
(2) ONDCP will dedicate 10 percent of the total amount appropriated 
specifically for the media campaign for the creation and distribution 
of grassroots materials aimed at children to be developed in 
consultation with community groups and experts, and to be distributed 
to communities and schools to support the national media campaign, (3) 
ONDCP, or any agent acting on its behalf, is prohibited from obligating 
any funds for the creative development of advertisements, (4) ONDCP 
will secure 80 percent of corporate sponsorship and will report 
quarterly on its efforts to meet this goal, (5) ONDCP, or any agent 
acting on its behalf, is prohibited from paying for the development of 
new advertisements related to the media campaign, but these ads must be 
provided on a pro-bono basis, (6) ONDCP is mandated to use appropriated 
funds solely to fund the anti-drug media campaign to include only the 
purchase of media time and space, talent re-use payments, out-of-pocket 
advertising production costs, and the negotiated fee for the contract 
buying agency, (7) none of the funds provided for the national media 
campaign for fiscal year 1999 may be obligated until ONDCP has 
submitted for written approval by the Committees on Appropriations the 
evaluation and results of Phase I and Phase II of the campaign, (8) 
ONDCP is required to report to the Committee not only quarterly, but 
also monthly itemized reporting of all expenditures and obligations 
related to the media campaign, (9) funds shall be provided for 
obligation for the national media campaign after GAO has submitted and 
the Committee has approved the GAO report on the evaluation of Phase I 
of the media campaign and the GAO report on the media campaign 
financial management review: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $20,000,000 shall be to continue a program of matching grants 
to drug-free communities, as authorized in the Drug-Free Communities 
Act of 1997.

          information technology systems and related expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For emergency expenses related to Year 2000 conversion of Federal 
information technology systems, and related expenses, $3,250,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the funds 
made available shall be transferred, as necessary, by the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget to all affected federal Departments 
and Agencies for expenses necessary to ensure the information 
technology that is used or acquired by the federal government meets the 
definition of Year 2000 compliant under Federal Acquisition Regulations 
(concerning accurate processing of date/time data, including 
calculating, comparing, and sequencing from, into, and between the 
twentieth and twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 2000 and 
leap year calculations) and to meet other criteria for Year 2000 
compliance as the head of each Department or Agency considers 
appropriate: Provided further, That none of the funds provided under 
this heading may be transferred to any Department or Agency until 
fifteen days after the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
has submitted to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem a 
proposed allocation and plan for that Department or Agency to achieve 
Year 2000 compliance for technology information systems: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided in this paragraph is in 
addition to any other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this or 
any other Act: Provided further, That funds provided under this heading 
shall be in addition to funds available in this or any other Act for 
Year 2000 compliance by any federal Department or Agency: Provided 
further, That the $3,250,000,000 shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the $3,250,000,000 is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28, $2,464,000.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $33,700,000, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That of the amount provided, funds are authorized 
to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the availability of 
funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to ``Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems and 
Related Expenses''.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $22,586,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to 
section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act 
of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), the revenues and collections 
deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of 
real property management and related activities not otherwise provided 
for, including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally 
owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of 
Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies 
(including space adjustments and telecommunications relocation 
expenses) in connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of 
space; contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing 
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration of federally owned 
buildings including grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and 
safeguarding of sites; maintenance, preservation, demolition, and 
equipment; acquisition of buildings and sites by purchase, 
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options 
to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of federally 
owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects by 
contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings (including 
equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, interest, and 
any other obligations for public buildings acquired by installment 
purchase and purchase contract, in the aggregate amount of 
$5,665,585,000, of which: (1) $552,757,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction of additional projects at locations and at 
maximum construction improvement costs (including funds for sites and 
expenses and associated design and construction services) as follows:
            New construction:
                    Arkansas:
                            Little Rock, U.S. courthouse, $3,436,000
                    California:
                            San Diego, U.S. courthouse, $15,400,000
                            San Jose, U.S. courthouse, $10,800,000
                    Colorado:
                            Denver, U.S. courthouse, $83,959,000
                    District of Columbia:
                            Department of Transportation, headquarters, 
                        $14,105,000
                            Southeast Federal Center remediation, 
                        $10,000,000
                    Florida:
                            Jacksonville, U.S. courthouse, $86,010,000
                            Orlando, U.S. courthouse, $1,930,000
                    Georgia:
                            Savannah, U.S. courthouse, $46,462,000
                    Massachusetts:
                            Springfield, U.S. courthouse, $5,563,000
                    Michigan:
                            Sault Sainte Marie, border station, 
                        $572,000
                    Mississippi:
                            Biloxi-Gulfport U.S. courthouse, $7,543,000
                    Missouri:
                            Cape Girardeau U.S. courthouse, $2,196,000
                    Montana:
                            Babb, Piegan border station, $6,165,000
                    New York:
                            Brooklyn, U.S. courthouse, $152,626,000
                            New York U.S. Mission to the United 
                        Nations, $3,163,000
                    Oregon:
                            Eugene, U.S. courthouse, $7,190,000
                    Tennessee:
                            Greenville, U.S. courthouse, $28,229,000
                    Texas:
                            Laredo, U.S. courthouse, $28,105,000
                    West Virginia:
                            Wheeling, U.S. courthouse, $29,303,000
                    Nationwide:
                            Nonprospectus, $10,000,000:
Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law in order to rescind a 
General Services Administration property sale, the General Services 
Administration is authorized to re-acquire that parcel of land on Block 
111, East Denver, Denver, Colorado, which was sold at public auction by 
the Federal government to its present owner pursuant to paragraphs (6) 
and (7) of section 12 of Public Law 94-204 (43 U.S.C. 1611 note) at a 
price equivalent to the 1988 auction sale price plus the amount of 
cumulative consumer price index, pursuant to the methodology as used in 
Public Law 104-42, Sec. 107(a), from the closing date of the sale until 
the date of re-acquisition by the Federal government, offset by any net 
income received from the property by the present owner since the 1988 
sale: Provided further, That the funds provided in Public Law 102-393 
for Hilo, Hawaii shall be expended for the planning and design of the 
Mauna Kea Astronomy Educational Center, notwithstanding Public Law 103-
123, and of the funds provided not more than $475,000 is to be 
disbursed in this fiscal year: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $14,105,000 for the design of the Department of 
Transportation headquarters building shall not be available for 
obligation by the Administrator of General Services until the Secretary 
of the Department of Transportation approves airport landing rights for 
British Airways at Denver International Airport, Denver, Colorado and 
certifies that he has received a guarantee for year-round commercially 
viable landing and take off slots for the U.S. carrier authorized to 
serve the Charlotte-London (Gatwick) route: Provided further, That all 
funds for direct construction projects shall expire on September 30, 
2000, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except for funds for 
projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date; (2) $668,031,000 
shall remain available until expended, for repairs and alterations 
which includes associated design and construction services: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $323,800,000 shall not be 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, 
That funds in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by project as 
follows, except each project may be increased by an amount not to 
exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount:
    Repairs and alterations:
            California:
                    San Francisco, Appraisers Building, $29,778,000
            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center, Building 25, 
                $29,351,000
            District of Columbia:
                    Federal Office Building, 10B, $13,844,000
                    Interstate Commerce Commission, Connecting Wing 
                Complex, Customs Building, Phase 3/3, $83,959,000
                    Old Executive Office Building, $25,210,000
                    Department of State, Phase 1, $29,779,000
            New York:
                    Brookhaven, Internal Revenue Service, Service 
                Center, $20,019,000
                    New York, U.S. Courthouse, 40 Foley Square, 
                $4,782,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Philadelphia, Byrne-Green, Federal Building-U.S. 
                Courthouse, $11,212,000
            Virginia:
                    Reston, J.W. Powell Building, $9,151,000
            Nationwide:
                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $25,000,000
                    Energy Programs, $25,000,000
                    Design Program, $16,710,000
                    Basic Repairs and Alteration, $344,236,000:
Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate: Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs 
associated with implementing security improvements to buildings 
necessary to meet the minimum standards for security in accordance with 
current law and in compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the 
appropriate Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That 
funds made available in this Act or any previous Act for ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
originally made available, except each project may be increased by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent when advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate of a greater 
amount: Provided further, That the difference between the funds 
appropriated and expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, 
under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred to 
Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in 
prospectus projects: Provided further, That all funds for repairs and 
alterations prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 2000 and 
remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or 
in part prior to such date: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $100,000 shall be used to address the lighting issues at the 
Byrne-Green Federal Courthouse in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations, $1,600,000 shall be provided to complete the 
alterations required at the Milwaukee, Wisconsin Courthouse: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations, $1,100,000 may be used to provide a new fence 
surrounding the Suitland Federal Complex in Suitland, Maryland: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (3) $215,764,000 for installment acquisition payments 
including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain available 
until expended; (4) $2,583,261,000 for rental of space which shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $51,667,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999; and (5) $1,554,772,000 for building operations 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That of 
the amount provided $31,095,000 shall not be available for obligation 
until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That funds available to the 
General Services Administration shall not be available for expenses of 
any construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for which 
a prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as 
amended, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses for the development of 
a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That for the purposes of this 
authorization, and hereafter, buildings constructed pursuant to the 
purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 
(40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to installment purchase 
contracts, and buildings under the control of another department or 
agency where alterations of such buildings are required in connection 
with the moving of such other department or agency from buildings then, 
or thereafter to be, under the control of the General Services 
Administration shall be considered to be federally owned buildings: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund 
may be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained 
from the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special 
services to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, 
guard booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
United States Secret Service to perform its protective functions 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be available from such 
revenues and collections: Provided further, That the remaining balances 
and associated assets and liabilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue 
Activities account are hereby transferred to the Federal Buildings Fund 
to be effective October 1, 1998, and that all income earned after that 
effective date that would otherwise have been deposited to the 
Pennsylvania Avenue Activities account shall thereafter be deposited to 
the Federal Buildings Fund, to be available for the purposes authorized 
by Public Laws 104-134 and 104-208, notwithstanding subsection 
210(f)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, as 
amended: Provided further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 shall 
be made available for the 1999 Women's World Cup Soccer event: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 shall be made available 
for the 1999 World Alpine Ski Championships: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund 
during fiscal year 1999, excluding reimbursements under section 
210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of $5,665,585,000 shall remain in 
the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                         policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide and 
internal responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $106,494,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated from this Act or any other Act 
shall be available to convert the Old Post Office at 1100 Pennsylvania 
Avenue in Northwest Washington, D.C. from office use to any other use 
until a comprehensive plan, which shall include street-level retail 
use, has been approved by the Senate Committee on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That no funds from this Act or any other Act shall be 
available to acquire by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise the 
leasehold rights of the existing lease with private parties at the Old 
Post Office prior to the approval of the comprehensive plan by the 
Senate Committee on Appropriations.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,000,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $10,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,241,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                    General Services Administration

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1999 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2000 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the 
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out 
in its approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal 
year 2000 request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom 
utilization study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or 
expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay 
the rate per square foot assessment for space and services as 
determined by the General Services Administration in compliance with 
the Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance 
of pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to 
the extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', claims against the Government 
of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in 
other construction projects with prior notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 408. From the funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', in addition to amounts 
provided in budget activities above, up to $5,000,000 shall be 
available for the demolition, cleanup and conveyance of the property at 
block 35 and lot 2 of block 36 in Anchorage, Alaska: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of 
General Services shall, not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, demolish and remove all buildings, structures 
and other fixtures on the property at block 35 and lot 2 of block 36, 
Anchorage Original Townsite East Addition, Anchorage, Alaska, excluding 
any portion dedicated for use by the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention: Provided further, That the remediation of said parcel shall 
include the removal of all asbestos, lead and any other contamination, 
and restoration of the property, to the extent practicable, to an 
undeveloped condition: Provided further, That upon completion of the 
activities required for the demolition and removal of buildings, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of 
General Services shall convey to the municipality of Anchorage, without 
reimbursement, all right, title, and interest of the United States to 
the property.
    Sec. 409. The Administrator of General Services may convey, without 
consideration, to the City of Racine, Wisconsin all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of excess real 
property, including improvements thereon, that is located on 2310 
Center Street, commencing at the intersection of the North line of 24th 
Street and the center line of Center Street, being the point of the 
beginning; thence Northerly along the center line of Center Street, 426 
feet to the South line of 23rd Street extended East; thence Westerly 
along the South line of 23rd street extended East; 325 feet to the West 
line of Franklin Street extended South; thence southerly along the West 
line of Franklin Street extended South to a point on the North line of 
24th Street; thence Easterly along the North line of 24th Street to the 
point of beginning located in Racine, Wisconsin and which contains the 
U.S. Army Reserve Center.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $25,805,000, together with not to 
exceed $2,430,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement 
appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection 
Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and records and related activities, as provided by law, and for 
expenses necessary for the review and declassification of documents, 
and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $221,030,000: Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $4,277,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That the 
Archivist of the United States is authorized to use any excess funds 
available from the amount borrowed for construction of the National 
Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide adequate storage 
for holdings: Provided further, That of the amount provided, funds are 
authorized to be used for year 2000 conversion costs pending the 
availability of funding through emergency appropriation, pursuant to 
``Funds Appropriated to the President, Information Technology Systems 
and Related Expenses''.

              archives facilities repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $11,325,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $2,000,000 is for an architectural 
and engineering study for the renovation of the Archives I facility, 
and of which $4,000,000 is for encasement of the Charters of Freedom, 
and of which $875,000 is for the requirements study and design of the 
National Archives Anchorage facility: Provided, That of the amount 
provided, $2,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

        National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$11,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amount provided, $5,500,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 
Public Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $8,492,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; $85,350,000; 
and in addition $91,236,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs: Provided, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not 
affect the authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by 
section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code: Provided further, 
That, except as may be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8902a(f)(1) and (i), no 
payment may be made from the Employees Health Benefits Fund to any 
physician, hospital, or other provider of health care services or 
supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies are provided to 
an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 through 1320a-7a), from participation in any program 
under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.): 
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of 
Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, accept donations of 
money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,145,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel Management's 
retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from the 
appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

        payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $8,720,000.

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,765,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 1999, for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the 
Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has 
within 90 days after his release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former position 
and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still 
qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not been 
restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, 
in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made 
in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to 
any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in 
the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 509. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 1999 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 1999 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2000, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 510. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department, 
or instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences, or other meetings in connection with the 
provision of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made 
pursuant to this section shall not exceed the rate specified in 
regulations prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal 
year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is 
actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
addition to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of 
existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall not 
apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the 
Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in a current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 612. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and 
such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of 
special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 
1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property 
owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may 
take the same actions as the Administrator of General Services may take 
under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto 
penal consequences under the authority and within the limits provided 
in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 614. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1999, by 
this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee 
described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 614 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 1998, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 1999, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable 
        wage schedule in accordance with such section 614; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1999, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1999 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1999 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in fiscal year 1998 under such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1998, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 1998, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1998.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this section 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 615. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, except that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center 
is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by 
lease, contract, or other agreement for training which cannot be 
accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 617. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1999 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 618. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of 
        the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
        intelligence functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 619. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including 
employees of the Executive Office of the President, not directly 
responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and 
duties: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family 
of the President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State 
of a foreign country or their designees, persons providing assistance 
to the President for official purposes, or other individuals so 
designated by the President.
    Sec. 621. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or 
his designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or 
persons with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the 
Executive Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are 
themselves subject to a program of individual random drug testing.
    Sec. 622. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 623. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1999 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other 
nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, form, or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, 
or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities 
created by Executive Order No. 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United 
States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 
10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); 
the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et 
seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 
798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by said Executive order and listed statutes are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is 
to be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an 
intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an employee 
or officer of the United States Government, may contain provisions 
appropriate to the particular activity for which such document is to be 
used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the 
person will not disclose any classified information received in the 
course of such activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the 
United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it 
clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress or to an authorized 
official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are 
essential to reporting a substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 624. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or 
film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 625. (a) In General.--No later than September 30, 1999, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the 
Congress a report that provides--
            (1) estimates of the total annual costs and benefits of 
        Federal regulatory programs, including quantitative and 
        nonquantitative measures of regulatory costs and benefits;
            (2) estimates of the costs and benefits (including 
        quantitative and nonquantitative measures) of each rule that is 
        likely to have a gross annual effect on the economy of 
        $100,000,000 or more in increased costs;
            (3) an assessment of the direct and indirect impacts of 
        Federal rules on the private sector, State and local 
        government, and the Federal Government; and
            (4) recommendations from the Director and a description of 
        significant public comments to reform or eliminate any Federal 
        regulatory program or program element that is inefficient, 
        ineffective, or is not a sound use of the Nation's resources.
    (b) Notice.--The Director shall provide public notice and an 
opportunity to comment on the report under subsection (a) before the 
report is issued in final form.
    Sec. 626. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or that such disclosure has 
been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 627. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to establish 
scientific certification standards for explosives detection canines, 
and shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, for the certification of 
explosives detection canines employed by Federal agencies, or other 
agencies providing explosives detection services at airports in the 
United States.
    Sec. 628. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing 
or telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the 
Federal Government without the approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 629. Notwithstanding section 611, interagency financing is 
authorized to carry out the purposes of the National Bioethics Advisory 
Commission.
    Sec. 630. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines 
that noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act. Any waiver granted by the Chief Information Officer shall 
be reported to the Office of Management and Budget, and copies shall be 
provided to Congress.
    Sec. 632. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or merchandise mined, 
produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, as 
determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1307).
    Sec. 633. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 634. The Director of the United States Marshals Service is 
directed to conduct a quarterly threat assessment on the Director of 
the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
    Sec. 635. Section 636(c) of Public Law 104-208 is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subparagraph (1) by inserting after ``United States 
        Code'' the following: ``any agency or court in the Judicial 
        Branch,'';
            (2) In subparagraph (2) by amending ``prosecution, or 
        detention'' to read: ``prosecution, detention, or 
        supervision''; and
            (3) In subparagraph (3) by inserting after ``title 5,'' the 
        following: ``and, with regard to the Judicial Branch, mean a 
        justice or judge of the United States as defined in 28 U.S.C. 
        451 in regular active service or retired from regular active 
        service, other judicial officers as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States, and supervisors and managers 
        within the Judicial Branch as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States,''.
    Sec. 636. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1999 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts 
to carry out the purposes of the National Science and Technology 
Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit 
multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities.
    Sec. 637. Section 626(b) of the Treasury, Postal Service, and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1997, as contained in section 
101(f) of Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-360), the Omnibus 
Appropriations Act, 1997, is amended to read as follows: ``(b) Until 
September 30, 1999, or until the end of the current FTS 2000 contracts, 
whichever is earlier, subsection (a) shall continue to apply to the use 
of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act.''.
    Sec. 638. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 639. (a) For purposes of each provision of law described under 
subsection (b), no adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United 
States Code, shall be considered to have taken effect in the fiscal 
year beginning on October 1, 1998, in the rates of basic pay for the 
statutory pay systems.
    (b) The provisions of law referred to under subsection (a) are each 
provision of law amended by section 704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act 
of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5318 note).
    Sec. 640. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no part of 
any funds provided by this Act or any other Act beginning in fiscal 
year 1999 and thereafter shall be available for paying Sunday premium 
pay to any employee unless such employee actually performed work during 
the time corresponding to such premium pay.
    Sec. 641. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Treasury is authorized to, upon submission of proper 
documentation (as determined by the Secretary), reimburse importers of 
large capacity military magazine rifles as defined in the Treasury 
Department's April 6, 1998 ``Study on the Sporting Suitability of 
Modified Semiautomatic Assault Rifles'', for which authority had been 
granted to import such firearms into the United States on or before 
November 14, 1997, and released under bond to the importer by the U.S. 
Customs Service on or before February 10, 1998: Provided, That the 
importer abandons title to the firearms to the United States: Provided 
further, That reimbursements are submitted to the Secretary for his 
approval within 120 days of enactment of this provision. In no event 
shall reimbursements under this provision exceed the importers cost for 
the weapons, plus any shipping, transportation, duty, and storage costs 
related to the importation of such weapons. Money made available for 
expenditure under 31 U.S.C. section 1304(a) in an amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for reimbursements under this provision: 
Provided, That accepting the compensation provided under this provision 
is final and conclusive and constitutes a complete release of any and 
all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action whatsoever against 
the United States, its agencies, officers, or employees arising from 
the denial by the Department of the Treasury of the entry of such 
firearms into the United States. Such compensation is not otherwise 
required by law and is not intended to create or recognize any legally 
enforceable right to any person.
    Sec. 642. Prohibition of Acquisition of Products Produced by Forced 
or Indentured Child Labor. (a) Prohibition.--The head of an executive 
agency may not acquire an item that appears on a list published under 
subsection (b) unless the source of the item certifies to the head of 
the executive agency that forced or indentured child labor was not used 
to mine, produce, or manufacture the item.
    (b) Publication of List of Prohibited Items.--(1) The Secretary of 
Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of State, shall publish in the Federal Register every other 
year a list of items that such officials have identified that might 
have been mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured 
child labor.
    (2) The first list shall be published under paragraph (1) not later 
than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Required Contract Clauses.--(1) The head of an executive agency 
shall include in each solicitation of offers for a contract for the 
procurement of an item included on a list published under subsection 
(b) the following clauses:
            (A) A clause that requires the contractor to certify to the 
        contracting officer that the contractor or, in the case of an 
        incorporated contractor, a responsible official of the 
        contractor has made a good faith effort to determine whether 
        forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or 
        manufacture any item furnished under the contract and that, on 
        the basis of those efforts, the contractor is unaware of any 
        such use of child labor.
            (B) A clause that obligates the contractor to cooperate 
        fully to provide access for any official of the United States 
        to the contractor's records, documents, persons, or premises if 
        requested by the official for the purpose of determining 
        whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, 
        produce, or manufacture any item furnished under the contract.
    (2) This subsection applies with respect to acquisitions for a 
total amount in excess of the micro-purchase threshold (as defined in 
section 32(f) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
U.S.C. 428(f)), including acquisitions of commercial items for such an 
amount notwithstanding section 34 of the Office of Federal Procurement 
Act (41 U.S.C. 430).
    (d) Investigations.--Whenever a contracting officer of an executive 
agency has reason to believe that a contractor has submitted a false 
certification under subsection (a) or (c)(1)(A) or has failed to 
provide cooperation in accordance with the obligation imposed pursuant 
to subsection (c)(1)(B), the head of the executive agency shall refer 
the matter, for investigation, to the Inspector General of the 
executive agency and, as the head of the executive agency determines 
appropriate, to the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (e) Remedies.--(1) The head of an executive agency may impose 
remedies as provided in this subsection in the case of a contractor 
under a contract of the executive agency if the head of the executive 
agency finds that the contractor--
            (A) has furnished under the contract items that have been 
        mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child 
        labor or uses forced or indentured child labor in mining, 
        production, or manufacturing operations of the contractor;
            (B) has submitted a false certification under subparagraph 
        (A) of subsection (c)(1); or
            (C) has failed to provide cooperation in accordance with 
        the obligation imposed pursuant to subparagraph (B) of such 
        subsection.
    (2) The head of the executive agency, in the sole discretion of the 
head of the executive agency, may terminate a contract on the basis of 
any finding described in paragraph (1).
    (3) The head of an executive agency may debar or suspend a 
contractor from eligibility for Federal contracts on the basis of a 
finding that the contractor has engaged in an act described in 
paragraph (1)(A). The period of the debarment or suspension may not 
exceed three years.
    (4) The Administrator of General Services shall include on the List 
of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement 
Programs (maintained by the Administrator as described in the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation) each person that is debarred, suspended, 
proposed for debarment or suspension, or declared ineligible by the 
head of an executive agency or the Comptroller General on the basis 
that the person uses forced or indentured child labor to mine, produce, 
or manufacture any item.
    (5) This subsection shall not be construed to limit the use of 
other remedies available to the head of an executive agency or any 
other official of the Federal Government on the basis of a finding 
described in paragraph (1).
    (f) Report.--Each year, the Administrator of General Services, with 
the assistance of the heads of other executive agencies, shall review 
the actions taken under this section and submit to Congress a report on 
those actions.
    (g) Implementation in the Federal Acquisition Regulation.--(1) The 
Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised within 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act--
            (A) to provide for the implementation of this section; and
            (B) to include the use of forced or indentured child labor 
        in mining, production, or manufacturing as a cause on the lists 
        of causes for debarment and suspension from contracting with 
        executive agencies that are set forth in the regulation.
    (2) The revisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be 
published in the Federal Register promptly after the final revisions 
are issued.
    (h) Exception.--
            (1) In general.--This section does not apply to a contract 
        that is for the procurement of any product, or any article, 
        material, or supply contained in a product, that is mined, 
        produced, or manufactured in any foreign country or 
        instrumentality, if--
                    (A) the foreign country or instrumentality is--
                            (i) a party to the Agreement on Government 
                        Procurement annexed to the WTO Agreement; or
                            (ii) a party to the North American Free 
                        Trade Agreement; and
                    (B) the contract is of a value that is equal to or 
                greater than the United States threshold specified in 
                the Agreement on Government Procurement annexed to the 
                WTO Agreement or the North American Free Trade 
                Agreement, whichever is applicable.
            (2) WTO agreement.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        term ``WTO Agreement'' means the Agreement Establishing the 
        World Trade Organization, entered into on April 15, 1994.
    (i) Applicability.--(1) Except as provided in subsection (c)(2), 
the requirements of this section apply on and after the date determined 
under subsection (2) to any solicitation that is issued, any 
unsolicited proposal that is received, and any contract that is entered 
into by an executive agency pursuant to such a solicitation or proposal 
on or after this date.
    (2) The date referred to is paragraph (1) is the date that is 30 
days after the date of the publication of the revisions of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation under subsection (g)(2).
    Sec. 643. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for the 
statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 1999 under 
section 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an 
increase of 3.6 percent.
    (b) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 1999.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.
                                                       Calendar No. 470

105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2312

                          [Report No. 105-251]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
  Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
 Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 15, 1998

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar