[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2260 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 449
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2260

                          [Report No. 105-235]

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              July 2, 1998

    Mr. Gregg, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported under 
  authority of the order of the Senate of June 26, 1998 the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and related agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1999, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $76,199,000, of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed 43 permanent positions and 44 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $7,860,000 shall be expended for the Department 
Leadership Program: Provided further, That not to exceed 39 permanent 
positions and 39 full-time equivalent workyears and $4,660,000 shall be 
expended for the Offices of Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: 
Provided further, That the latter two aforementioned offices shall not 
be augmented by personnel details, temporary transfers of personnel on 
either a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis or any other type of 
formal or informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or funds on 
either a temporary or long-term basis: Provided further, That the 
Attorney General is authorized to transfer, under such terms and 
conditions as the Attorney General shall specify, real or personal 
property of limited or marginal value, as such value is determined by 
guidelines established by the Attorney General, to a State or local 
government agency, or its designated contractor or transferee, for use 
to support drug abuse treatment, drug and crime prevention and 
education, housing, job skills, and other community-based public health 
and safety programs: Provided further, That any transfer under the 
preceding proviso shall not create or confer any private right of 
action in any person against the United States, and shall be treated as 
a reprogramming under section 605 of this Act.

                     joint automated booking system

    For expenses necessary for the nationwide deployment of a Joint 
Automated Booking System, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         counterterrorism fund

    For necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney General, 
$19,999,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse any 
Department of Justice organization for (1) the costs incurred in 
reestablishing the operational capability of an office or facility 
which has been damaged or destroyed as a result of any domestic or 
international terrorist incident, (2) the costs of providing support to 
counter, investigate or prosecute domestic or international terrorism, 
including payment of rewards in connection with these activities, (3) 
the costs of conducting a terrorism threat assessment of Federal 
agencies and their facilities, (4) the costs associated with ensuring 
the continuance of essential Government functions during a time of 
emergency, and (5) the costs of activities related to the protection of 
the Nation's critical infrastructure: Provided, That any Federal agency 
may be reimbursed for costs associated with implementation of the 
recommendations of the President's Commission on Critical 
Infrastructure Protection: Provided further, That any agency receiving 
services from the Department of Justice from the Fund may reimburse the 
Fund and that any such reimbursement shall remain available in the Fund 
until expended: Provided further, That funds provided under this 
paragraph shall be available only after the Attorney General notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
    In addition, for necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney 
General, $174,000,000, to remain available until expended, for transfer 
to the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), for counterterrorism grants, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance (including 
amounts for management and administration which shall be transferred to 
and merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account), to cities, States, 
territories, and local jurisdictions; of which $95,000,000 shall be 
available for equipping first responders in cities, States, 
territories, and local jurisdictions; of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available to reimburse the Department of Health and Human Services for 
costs associated with Metropolitan Medical Strike Teams; of which 
$10,000,000 shall be available for technical assistance and evaluation; 
of which $7,000,000 shall be available for law enforcement first 
responder training; of which $22,000,000 shall be available for public 
safety first responder training provided through the National 
Consortium for First Responders; of which $25,000,000 shall be 
available for firefighter and emergency medical services equipment; and 
of which $10,000,000 shall be available for situational training 
exercises.

                   administrative review and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration related activities, $41,858,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $33,211,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General; and for the acquisition, lease, 
maintenance, and operation of motor vehicles, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: 
Provided, That up to one-tenth of one percent of the Department of 
Justice's allocation from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund grant 
programs may be transferred at the discretion of the Attorney General 
to this account for the audit or other review of such grant programs, 
as authorized by section 130005 of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322).

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $7,969,000.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the 
District of Columbia; and for annual obligations of membership in law-
based international organizations pursuant to treaties ratified 
pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate, conventions, or 
specific Acts of Congress, notwithstanding any other provision of law; 
$485,511,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds available in this appropriation, not to exceed $17,834,000 shall 
remain available until expended for office automation systems for the 
legal divisions covered by this appropriation, and for the United 
States Attorneys, the Antitrust Division, and offices funded through 
``Salaries and Expenses'', General Administration: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $1,000 shall be 
available to the United States National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for 
official reception and representation expenses.
     In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, as amended, not to exceed $4,028,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $86,588,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $86,588,000 of offsetting collections derived 
from fees collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall 
be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 1999, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation from the General Fund 
estimated at not more than $0: Provided further, That the third proviso 
under the heading ``Salaries and Expenses, Antitrust Division'' in 
Public Law 105-119 is repealed.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including intergovernmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,083,642,000; of which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2000, for (1) training personnel in debt 
collection, (2) locating debtors and their property, (3) paying the net 
costs of selling property, and (4) tracking debts owed to the United 
States Government: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of those funds available for automated litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $1,200,000 for the design, development, and 
implementation of an information systems strategy for D.C. Superior 
Court shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $2,500,000 for the operation of the National Advocacy Center 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
expansion of existing Violent Crime Task Forces in United States 
Attorneys Offices into demonstration projects, including inter-
governmental, inter-local, cooperative, and task-force agreements, 
however denominated, and contracts with State and local prosecutorial 
and law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of violent crimes: Provided further, That, in addition to 
reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the Office of 
the United States Attorneys, not to exceed 8,960 positions and 9,125 
full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the United States Attorneys.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), $108,248,000, to remain available 
until expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System 
Fund: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
deposits to the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be 
necessary to pay refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $100,000,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 589a(b) 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 1999, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 1999 appropriation from the Fund not to exceed 
$8,248,000: Provided further, That the fourth proviso under the heading 
``United States Trustee Fund'' in Public Law 105-119 is repealed.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $1,227,000.

         salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service; 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of 
vehicles, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for police-type 
use, without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year, $501,752,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 561(i); 
of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses; and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for 
development, implementation, maintenance and support, and training for 
an automated prisoner information system, shall remain available until 
expended.

                              construction

    For planning, constructing, renovating, equipping, and maintaining 
United States Marshals Service prisoner-holding space in United States 
courthouses and federal buildings, including the renovation and 
expansion of prisoner movement areas, elevators, and sallyports, 
$4,000,000, to remain available until expended.

 justice prisoner and alien transportation system fund, united states 
                            marshals service

    There is hereby established a Justice Prisoner and Alien 
Transportation System Fund for the payment of necessary expenses 
related to the scheduling and transportation of United States prisoners 
and illegal and criminal aliens in the custody of the United States 
Marshals Service, as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, including, without 
limitation, salaries and expenses, operations, and the acquisition, 
lease, and maintenance of aircraft and support facilities: Provided, 
That the Fund shall be reimbursed or credited with advance payments 
from amounts available to the Department of Justice, other Federal 
agencies, and other sources at rates that will recover the expenses of 
Fund operations, including, without limitation, accrual of annual leave 
and depreciation of plant and equipment of the Fund: Provided further, 
That proceeds from the disposal of Fund aircraft shall be credited to 
the Fund: Provided further, That amounts in the Fund shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation, and may be used for operating equipment 
lease agreements that do not exceed five years: Provided further, That 
with respect to the transportation of Federal, State, local and 
territorial prisoners and detainees, the lease or rent of aircraft by 
the Justice Prisoner Air Transport System shall be considered use of 
public aircraft pursuant to 49 U.S.C. section 40102(a)(37).
    For the initial capitalization costs of the Fund, $10,000,000.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For expenses, related to United States prisoners in the custody of 
the United States Marshals Service as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, but 
not including expenses otherwise provided for in appropriations 
available to the Attorney General, $407,018,000, as authorized by 28 
U.S.C. 561(i), to remain available until expended.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, 
for expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $95,000,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovations, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto, for protected witness safesites; of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored vehicles for transportation of protected 
witnesses; and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 may be made available 
for the purchase, installation and maintenance of a secure, automated 
information network to store and retrieve the identities and locations 
of protected witnesses.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
established by title X of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $5,319,000: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for conflict prevention and resolution 
activities of the Community Relations Service, the Attorney General may 
transfer such amounts to the Community Relations Service, from 
available appropriations for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such circumstances: 
Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(A)(ii), (B), (F), 
and (G), as amended, $23,000,000, to be derived from the Department of 
Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                    Radiation Exposure Compensation

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $2,000,000.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include intergovernmental agreements 
with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in organized 
crime drug trafficking, $294,967,000: Provided, That any amounts 
obligated from appropriations under this heading may be used under 
authorities available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation: Provided further, That any unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the 
Attorney General for reallocation among participating organizations in 
succeeding fiscal years, subject to the reprogramming procedures 
described in section 605 of this Act.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States; including purchase for police-type use of not to exceed 2,668 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 2,000 will be for replacement only, 
without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current 
fiscal year, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; and not to exceed $70,000 to 
meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General, $2,522,050,000; of which not to 
exceed $50,000,000 for automated data processing and telecommunications 
and technical investigative equipment and not to exceed $1,000,000 for 
undercover operations shall remain available until September 30, 2000; 
of which not less than $233,473,000 shall be for counterterrorism 
investigations, foreign counterintelligence, and other activities 
related to our national security; of which not to exceed $61,800,000 
shall remain available until expended; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 is authorized to be made available for making advances for 
expenses arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative 
activities related to violent crime, terrorism, organized crime, and 
drug investigations; and of which $1,500,000 shall be available to 
maintain an independent program office dedicated solely to the 
relocation of the Criminal Justice Information Services Division and 
the automation of fingerprint identification services: Provided, That 
not to exceed $45,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That no funds in this Act 
may be used to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any State or 
local authority which has obtained similar equipment through a Federal 
grant or subsidy unless the State or local authority agrees to return 
that equipment or to repay that grant or subsidy to the Federal 
Government.
    In addition, $433,124,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund, as authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994 as amended, and the Antiterrorism and Effective Death 
Penalty Act of 1996.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $1,287,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to 
be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; purchase of not to exceed 1,428 passenger motor vehicles, of 
which 1,080 will be for replacement only, for police-type use without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year; and acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
$802,054,000, of which not to exceed $1,800,000 for research and 
$15,000,000 for transfer to the Drug Diversion Control Fee Account for 
operating expenses shall remain available until expended, and of which 
not to exceed $5,000,000 for purchase of evidence and payments for 
information, not to exceed $10,000,000 for contracting for automated 
data processing and telecommunications equipment, and not to exceed 
$2,000,000 for laboratory equipment, $4,000,000 for technical 
equipment, and $2,000,000 for aircraft replacement retrofit and parts, 
shall remain available until September 30, 2000; and of which not to 
exceed $50,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    In addition, $407,000,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $8,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
administration and enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, 
naturalization, and alien registration, including not to exceed $50,000 
to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be 
expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under 
the certificate of, the Attorney General; purchase for police type use 
(not to exceed 2,904, of which 1,711 are for replacement only), without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, 
maintenance and operation of aircraft; research related to immigration 
enforcement; and for the care and housing of Federal detainees held in 
the joint Immigration and Naturalization Service and United States 
Marshals Service's Buffalo Detention Facility; $1,169,317,000 of which 
not to exceed $400,000 for research shall remain available until 
expended; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available for 
costs associated with the training program for basic officer training, 
and $5,000,000 is for payments or advances arising out of contractual 
or reimbursable agreements with State and local law enforcement 
agencies while engaged in cooperative activities related to 
immigration; and of which not to exceed $5,000,000 is to fund or 
reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs associated with the 
care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled illegal aliens: 
Provided, That none of the funds available to the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service shall be available to pay any employee overtime 
pay in an amount in excess of $30,000 during the calendar year 
beginning January 1, 1999: Provided further, That uniforms may be 
purchased without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That not to exceed 20 permanent positions and 20 
full-time equivalent workyears and $1,711,000 shall be expended for the 
Office of Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: Provided further, 
That the latter two aforementioned offices shall not be augmented by 
personnel details, temporary transfers of personnel on either a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis or any other type of formal or 
informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or funds on either a 
temporary or long-term basis: Provided further, That the number of 
positions filled through non-career appointment at the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service, for which funding is provided in this Act or is 
otherwise made available to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
shall not exceed four permanent positions and four full-time equivalent 
workyears.
    In addition, $1,099,667,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                              construction

    For planning, construction, renovation, equipping, and maintenance 
of buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and 
alien registration, not otherwise provided for, $110,251,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions, including 
purchase (not to exceed 763, of which 599 are for replacement only) and 
hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for the 
provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments; $2,909,956,000: Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources and Services 
Administration such amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures 
by that Administration for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal 
and correctional institutions: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Federal Prison System (FPS), where necessary, may enter into 
contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor to 
determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the FPS, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
FPS: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $90,000,000 for the activation of new facilities shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other 
expenses authorized by section 501(c) of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, as amended, for the care and security in the 
United States of Cuban and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 4(d) of the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 
U.S.C. 353(d)), FPS may enter into contracts and other agreements with 
private entities for periods of not to exceed 3 years and 7 additional 
option years for the confinement of Federal prisoners.
    In addition, $9,559,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; leasing the Oklahoma City Airport Trust Facility; purchase 
and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and equipping of such 
facilities for penal and correctional use, including all necessary 
expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; and 
constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
$379,197,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $14,074,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate 
work programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be 
used for work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, 
That not to exceed 10 percent of the funds appropriated to ``Buildings 
and Facilities'' in this Act or any other Act may be transferred to 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Federal Prison System, upon notification by 
the Attorney General to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate in compliance with provisions set 
forth in section 605 of this Act.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation, including purchase of (not to 
exceed five for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $3,266,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which the said accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired 
or produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other 
property belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, and the Missing Children's Assistance Act, as 
amended, including salaries and expenses in connection therewith, and 
the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, and section 822 of the 
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, $170,151,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title 
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, as amended by 
Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524).

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended, for State and Local Narcotics Control 
and Justice Assistance Improvements, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 511 of said Act, $552,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title I of said Act, as 
amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which $47,000,000 
shall be available to carry out the provisions of chapter A of subpart 
2 of part E of title I of said Act, for discretionary grants under the 
Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance 
Programs, including $4,500,000 which shall be available to the 
Executive Office of United States Attorneys to support the National 
District Attorneys Association's participation in legal education 
training at the National Advocacy Center.

   violent crime reduction programs, state and local law enforcement 
                               assistance

    For assistance (including amounts for administrative costs for 
management and administration, which amounts shall be transferred to 
and merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account) authorized by the 
Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-
322), as amended (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended (``the 1968 Act''); and the Victims of 
Child Abuse Act of 1990, as amended (``the 1990 Act''); $2,124,650,000, 
to remain available until expended, which shall be derived from the 
Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund; of which $500,000,000 shall be for 
Local Law Enforcement Block Grants, pursuant to H.R. 728 as passed by 
the House of Representatives on February 14, 1995, except that for 
purposes of this Act, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall be 
considered a ``unit of local government'' as well as a ``State'', for 
the purposes set forth in paragraphs (A), (B), (D), (F), and (I) of 
section 101(a)(2) of H.R. 728 and for establishing crime prevention 
programs involving cooperation between community residents and law 
enforcement personnel in order to control, detect, or investigate crime 
or the prosecution of criminals: Provided, That no funds provided under 
this heading may be used as matching funds for any other Federal grant 
program: Provided further, That $40,000,000 of this amount shall be for 
Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing facilities and other areas in 
cooperation with State and local law enforcement: Provided further, 
That funds may also be used to defray the costs of indemnification 
insurance for law enforcement officers: Provided further, That, 
hereafter, for the purpose of eligibility for the Local Law Enforcement 
Block Grant Program in the State of Louisiana, parish sheriffs are to 
be considered the unit of local government under section 108 of H.R. 
728: Provided further, That $20,000,000 shall be available to carry out 
section 102(2) of H.R. 728; of which $45,000,000 shall be for grants to 
upgrade criminal records, as authorized by section 106(b) of the Brady 
Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, as amended, and section 4(b) 
of the National Child Protection Act of 1993; of which $350,000,000 
shall be for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, as authorized 
by section 242(j) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; 
of which $711,000,000 shall be for Violent Offender Incarceration and 
Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants pursuant to subtitle A of title II 
of the 1994 Act, of which $150,000,000 shall be available for payments 
to States for incarceration of criminal aliens, of which $25,000,000 
shall be available for the Cooperative Agreement Program, and of which 
$52,000,000 shall be for the construction, renovation and repair of 
tribal detention facilities; of which $9,000,000 shall be for the Court 
Appointed Special Advocate Program, as authorized by section 218 of the 
1990 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall be for Child Abuse Training 
Programs for Judicial Personnel and Practitioners, as authorized by 
section 224 of the 1990 Act; of which $210,750,000 shall be for Grants 
to Combat Violence Against Women, to States, units of local government, 
and Indian tribal governments, as authorized by section 1001(a)(18) of 
the 1968 Act, including $12,000,000 which shall be used exclusively for 
the purpose of strengthening civil legal assistance programs for 
victims of domestic violence, and $10,000,000 which shall be used 
exclusively for violence on college campuses: Provided further, That, 
of these funds, $5,200,000 shall be provided to the National Institute 
of Justice for research and evaluation of violence against women, 
$1,196,000 shall be provided to the Office of the United States 
Attorney for the District of Columbia for domestic violence programs in 
D.C. Superior Court, and $10,000,000 shall be available to the Office 
of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Safe Start 
Program, to be administered as authorized by part C of the Juvenile 
Justice and Delinquency Act of 1974, as amended; of which $30,000,000 
shall be for Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies to States, units of 
local government, and Indian tribal governments, as authorized by 
section 1001(a)(19) of the 1968 Act; of which $25,000,000 shall be for 
Rural Domestic Violence and Child Abuse Enforcement Assistance Grants, 
as authorized by section 40295 of the 1994 Act; of which $5,000,000 
shall be for training programs to assist probation and parole officers 
who work with released sex offenders, as authorized by section 40152(c) 
of the 1994 Act, and for local demonstration projects; of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for grants for televised testimony, as authorized 
by section 1001(a)(7) of the 1968 Act; of which $10,000,000 shall be 
for the Tribal Courts Initiative; of which $63,000,000 shall be for 
grants for residential substance abuse treatment for State prisoners, 
as authorized by section 1001(a)(17) of the 1968 Act; of which 
$15,000,000 shall be for grants to States and units of local government 
for projects to improve DNA analysis, as authorized by section 
1001(a)(22) of the 1968 Act; of which $900,000 shall be for the Missing 
Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, as authorized by section 
240001(c) of the 1994 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall be for Motor 
Vehicle Theft Prevention Programs, as authorized by section 220002(h) 
of the 1994 Act; of which $40,000,000 shall be for Drug Courts, as 
authorized by title V of the 1994 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall be for 
Law Enforcement Family Support Programs, as authorized by section 
1001(a)(21) of the 1968 Act; of which $2,000,000 shall be for public 
awareness programs addressing marketing scams aimed at senior citizens, 
as authorized by section 250005(3) of the 1994 Act; and of which 
$100,000,000 shall be for Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block 
Grants pursuant to Title III of H.R. 3 as passed by the House of 
Representatives on May 8, 1997, of which $9,523,685 shall be for 
discretionary grants: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
requirements of H.R. 3, a State, or unit of local government within 
such State, shall be eligible for a grant under this program if the 
Governor of the State certifies to the Attorney General, consistent 
with guidelines established by the Attorney General in consultation 
with Congress, that the State is actively considering, or will consider 
within one year from the date of such certification, legislation, 
policies, or practices which if enacted would qualify the State for a 
grant under section 1802 of H.R. 3: Provided further, That 3 percent 
shall be available to the Attorney General for research, evaluation, 
and demonstration consistent with this program and 2 percent shall be 
available to the Attorney General for training and technical assistance 
consistent with this program: Provided further, That not less than 45 
percent of any grant provided to a State or unit of local government 
shall be spent for the purposes set forth in paragraphs (3) through 
(9), and not less than 35 percent shall be spent for the purposes set 
forth in paragraphs (1), (2) and (10) of section 1801(b) of H.R. 3, 
unless the State or unit of local government certifies to the Attorney 
General or the State, whichever is appropriate, that the interests of 
public safety and juvenile crime control would be better served by 
expending its grant for other purposes set forth under section 1801(b) 
of H.R. 3: Provided further, That the Federal share limitation in 
section 1805(e) of H.R. 3 shall be 50 percent in relation to the costs 
of constructing a permanent juvenile corrections facility: Provided 
further, That prior to receiving a grant under this program, a unit of 
local government must establish a coordinated enforcement plan for 
reducing juvenile crime, developed by a juvenile crime enforcement 
coalition, such coalition consisting of individuals representing the 
police, sheriff, prosecutor, State or local probation services, 
juvenile court, schools, business, and religious affiliated, fraternal, 
non-profit, or social service organizations involved in crime 
prevention: Provided further, That the conditions of sections 
1802(a)(3) and 1802(b)(1)(C) of H.R. 3 regarding juvenile adjudication 
records require a State or unit of local government to make available 
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation records of delinquency 
adjudications which are treated in a manner equivalent to adult 
records: Provided further, That no State or unit of local government 
may receive a grant under this program unless such State or unit of 
local government has implemented, or will implement no later than 
January 1, 1999, a policy of controlled substance testing for 
appropriate categories of juveniles within the juvenile justice system 
and funds received under this program may be expended for such purpose: 
Provided further, That the minimum allocation for each State under 
section 1803(a)(1)(A) of H.R. 3 shall be 0.5 percent: Provided further, 
That the terms and conditions under this heading for juvenile 
accountability incentive block grants are effective for fiscal year 
1999 only and upon the enactment of authorization legislation for 
juvenile accountability incentive block grants, funding provided in 
this Act shall from that date be subject to the provisions of that 
legislation and any provisions in this Act that are inconsistent with 
that legislation shall no longer have effect: Provided further, That 
funds made available in fiscal year 1999 under subpart 1 of part E of 
title I of the 1968 Act may be obligated for programs to assist States 
in the litigation processing of death penalty Federal habeas corpus 
petitions and for drug testing initiatives: Provided further, That if a 
unit of local government uses any of the funds made available under 
this title to increase the number of law enforcement officers, the unit 
of local government will achieve a net gain in the number of law 
enforcement officers who perform nonadministrative public safety 
service.

                       weed and seed program fund

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $40,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
for intergovernmental agreements, including grants, cooperative 
agreements, and contracts, with State and local law enforcement 
agencies engaged in the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes 
and drug offenses in ``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for 
either reimbursements or transfers to appropriation accounts of the 
Department of Justice and other Federal agencies which shall be 
specified by the Attorney General to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' 
program strategy: Provided, That funds designated by Congress through 
language for other Department of Justice appropriation accounts for 
``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be managed and executed by 
the Attorney General through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed: 
Provided further, That the Attorney General may direct the use of other 
Department of Justice funds and personnel in support of ``Weed and 
Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney General notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

                    violent crime reduction programs

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994, Public Law 103-322 (``the 1994 Act'') 
(including administrative costs), $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, for Public Safety and Community Policing Grants pursuant to 
title I of the 1994 Act: Provided, That not to exceed 266 permanent 
positions and 266 full-time equivalent workyears and $34,023,000 shall 
be expended for program management and administration: Provided 
further, That of the unobligated balances available in this program, 
$119,960,000 shall be used for innovative community policing programs, 
of which $65,960,000 shall be used for a law enforcement technology 
program, $1,000,000 shall be used for police recruitment programs 
authorized under subtitle H of title III of the 1994 Act, $15,500,000 
shall be used for policing initiatives to combat methamphetamine 
production and trafficking, $12,500,000 shall be used for the Community 
Policing to Combat Domestic Violence Program pursuant to section 
1701(d) of part Q of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968, as amended, and $25,000,000 shall be used for the Matching Grant 
Program for Law Enforcement Armor Vests pursuant to section 2501 of 
part Y of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as 
amended: Provided further, That up to $54,000,000 shall be available to 
improve tribal law enforcement including equipment and training.
    In addition, for activities authorized by the 1994 Act, $40,000,000 
for the Police Corps program to remain available until expended, which 
shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.

                       juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974, as amended, (``the Act''), including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance, $277,597,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by section 299 of part I of 
title II and section 506 of title V of the Act, as amended by Public 
Law 102-586, of which (1) notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$6,847,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part A of 
title II of the Act, $96,000,000 shall be available for expenses 
authorized by part B of title II of the Act, and $45,750,000 shall be 
available for expenses authorized by part C of title II of the Act: 
Provided, That $26,500,000 of the amounts provided for part B of title 
II of the Act, as amended, is for the purpose of providing additional 
formula grants under part B to States that provide assurances to the 
Administrator that the State has in effect (or will have in effect no 
later than one year after date of application) policies and programs, 
that ensure that juveniles are subject to accountability-based 
sanctions for every act for which they are adjudicated delinquent; (2) 
$12,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by section 281 
and 282 of part D of title II of the Act for prevention and treatment 
programs relating to juvenile gangs; (3) $10,000,000 shall be available 
for expenses authorized by section 285 of part E of title II of the 
Act; (4) $12,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part 
G of title II of the Act for juvenile mentoring programs; and (5) 
$95,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by title V of 
the Act for incentive grants for local delinquency prevention programs; 
of which $20,000,000 shall be for delinquency prevention, control, and 
system improvement programs for tribal youth; of which $25,000,000 
shall be available for grants of $360,000 to each state and $6,640,000 
shall be available for discretionary grants to states, for programs and 
activities to enforce state laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic 
beverages to minors or the purchase or consumption of alcoholic 
beverages by minors, prevention and reduction of consumption of 
alcoholic beverages by minors, and for technical assistance and 
training: Provided further, That upon the enactment of reauthorization 
legislation for Juvenile Justice Programs under the Juvenile Justice 
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, funding provisions 
in this Act shall from that date be subject to the provisions of that 
legislation and any provisions in this Act that are inconsistent with 
that legislation shall no longer have effect: Provided further, That of 
amounts made available under the Juvenile Justice Programs of the 
Office of Justice Programs to carry out part B (relating to Federal 
Assistance for State and Local Programs), subpart II of part C 
(relating to Special Emphasis Prevention and Treatment Programs), part 
D (relating to Gang-Free Schools and Communities and Community-Based 
Gang Intervention), part E (relating to State Challenge Activities), 
and part G (relating to Mentoring) of title II of the Juvenile Justice 
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, and to carry out the At-Risk 
Children's Program under title V of that Act, not more than 10 percent 
of each such amount may be used for research, evaluation, and 
statistics activities designed to benefit the programs or activities 
authorized under the appropriate part or title, and not more than 2 
percent of each such amount may be used for training and technical 
assistance activities designed to benefit the programs or activities 
authorized under that part or title.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, 
as amended, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 214B of the Act.

                    public safety officers benefits

    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized by part 
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such sums as are necessary, as authorized 
by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340).

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses in accordance with 
distributions, procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney 
General.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case 
of rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 104. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 103 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
establish and publicize a program under which publicly-advertised, 
extraordinary rewards may be paid, which shall not be subject to 
spending limitations contained in sections 3059 and 3072 of title 18, 
United States Code: Provided, That any reward of $100,000 or more, up 
to a maximum of $2,000,000, may not be made without the personal 
approval of the President or the Attorney General and such approval may 
not be delegated.
    Sec. 106. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act, including those derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 107. Any amounts credited to the ``Legalization Account'' 
established under section 245(c)(7)(B) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(c)(7)(B)) are transferred to the 
``Examinations Fee Account'' established under section 286(m) of that 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)).
    Sec. 108. 28 U.S.C. Section 589a(b) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in paragraph (7);
            (2) by striking the period in paragraph (8) and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding a new paragraph as follows:
            ``(9) interest earned on Fund investments.''.
    Sec. 109. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 1999, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice 
Programs of the Department of Justice--
            (1) may make grants, or enter into cooperative agreements 
        and contracts, for the Office of Justice Programs and the 
        component organizations of that Office; and
            (2) shall have final authority over all grants, cooperative 
        agreements, and contracts made, or entered into, for the Office 
        of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that 
        Office.
    Sec. 110. (a) Adjustment of Status.--Section 245(i) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255(i)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by amending the first sentence to 
        read as follows: ``Notwithstanding the provisions of 
        subsections (a) and (c) of this section, an alien physically 
        present in the United States who--
                    ``(A) entered the United States without inspection; 
                or
                    ``(B) is within one of the classes enumerated in 
                subsection (c) of this section,
        may apply to the Attorney General for the adjustment of his or 
        her status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
        residence.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``Breach Bond/
        Detention Fund established under section 286(r)'' and inserting 
        ``Immigration Detention and Naturalization Activity Account 
        established under section 286(s)''.
    (b) Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 245(k) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255(k)) is repealed.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 245(c)(2) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255(c)(2)) is 
        amended by striking ``subject to subsection (k),''.
    (c) Immigration Detention and Naturalization Activity Account.--
Section 286 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(s) Immigration Detention and Naturalization Activity Account.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the general 
        fund of the Treasury a separate account which shall be known as 
        the `Immigration Detention And Naturalization Activity 
        Account'. Notwithstanding any other section of this title, 
        there shall be deposited as offsetting receipts into the 
        Immigration Detention And Naturalization Activity Account 
        amounts described in section 245(i)(3)(B) to remain available 
        until expended.
            ``(2) Uses of the account.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
                shall refund out of the Immigration Detention And 
                Naturalization Activity Account to any appropriation 
                the amount paid out of such appropriation for expenses 
                incurred by the Attorney General for the detention of 
                aliens, for construction relating to such detention, 
                and for activities relating to the naturalization of 
                citizens.
                    ``(B) Quarterly refunds; adjustments.--The amounts 
                that are required to be refunded under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be refunded at least quarterly on the basis of 
                estimates made by the Attorney General of the expenses 
                referred to in subparagraph (A). Proper adjustments 
                shall be made in the amounts subsequently refunded 
                under subparagraph (A) to the extent prior estimates 
                were in excess of, or less than, the amount required to 
                be refunded under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Estimates in budget requests.--The amounts 
                required to be refunded from the Immigration Detention 
                And Naturalization Activity Account for fiscal year 
                1999 or any fiscal year thereafter shall be refunded in 
                accordance with estimates made in the budget request of 
                the Attorney General for that fiscal year. Any proposed 
                changes in the amounts designated in such budget 
                requests shall only be made after notification to the 
                Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives and the Senate in accordance with 
                section 605 of Public Law 104-134.
            ``(3) Annual reports.--The Attorney General shall annually 
        submit to Congress a report setting forth--
                    ``(A) the financial condition of the Immigration 
                Detention And Naturalization Activity Account for the 
                current fiscal year, including beginning account 
                balance, revenues, withdrawals, and ending account 
                balance; and
                    ``(B) projections for revenues, withdrawals, and 
                the beginning and ending account balances for the next 
                fiscal year.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to applications for adjustment of status filed on or after the 
end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect 
to any grant program for which amounts are made available under this 
title, the term ``tribal'' means of or relating to an Indian tribe (as 
that term is defined in section 102(2) of the Federally Recognized 
Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a(2))).
    Sec. 112. Section 13(e)(1)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(e)(1)(C)) is amended by inserting ``State'' and a 
comma immediately before ``territory''.
    Sec. 113. For fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, the Director of the 
Bureau of Prisons may make expenditures out of the Commissary Fund of 
the Federal Prison System, regardless of whether any such expenditure 
is security-related, for programs, goods, and services for the benefit 
of inmates (to the extent the provision of those programs, goods, or 
services to inmates is not otherwise prohibited by law), including--
            (1) the installation, operation, and maintenance of the 
        Inmate Telephone System;
            (2) the payment of all the equipment purchased or leased in 
        connection with the Inmate Telephone System; and
            (3) the salaries, benefits, and other expenses of personnel 
        who install, operate, and maintain the Inmate Telephone System.
    Sec. 114. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, the Attorney General may obligate any 
funds appropriated for or reimbursed to the Counterterrorism programs, 
projects or activities of the Department of Justice to purchase or 
lease equipment or any related items, or to acquire interim services, 
without regard to any otherwise applicable Federal acquisition rule, if 
the Attorney General determines that--
            (A) there is an exigent need for the equipment, related 
        items, or services in order to support an ongoing 
        counterterrorism, national security, or computer-crime 
        investigation or prosecution;
            (B) the equipment, related items, or services required are 
        not available within the Department of Justice; and
            (C) adherence to that Federal acquisition rule would--
                    (i) delay the timely acquisition of the equipment, 
                related items, or services; and
                    (ii) adversely affect an ongoing counterterrorism, 
                national security, or computer-crime investigation or 
                prosecution.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``Federal acquisition rule'' means 
any provision of title II or IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act, the Small Business Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
or any other provision of law or regulation that establishes policies, 
procedures, requirements, conditions, or restrictions for procurements 
by the head of a department or agency or the Federal Government.
    (b) The Attorney General shall immediately notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
writing of each expenditure under subsection (a), which notification 
shall include sufficient information to explain the circumstances 
necessitating the exercise of the authority under that subsection.
    Sec. 115. Section 210501(b)(1)(A) of the Violent Crime Control and 
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14151(b)(1)(A)) is amended by 
inserting ``and provide investigative assistance to tribal law 
enforcement agencies'' before the semicolon.
    Sec. 116. (a) Section 110 of division C of Public Law 104-208 is 
repealed.
    (b)(1) Paragraph (2) of section 104(b) of that Act is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(2) Clause b.--Clause (B) of such sentence shall apply as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) As of October 1, 2000, to not less than 25 
                percent of the border crossing identification cards in 
                circulation as of April 1, 1998.
                    ``(B) As of October 1, 2001, to not less than 50 
                percent of such cards in circulation as of April 1, 
                1998.
                    ``(C) As of October 1, 2002, to not less than 75 
                percent of such cards in circulation as of April 1, 
                1998.
                    ``(D) As of October 1, 2003, to all such cards in 
                circulation as of April 1, 1998.''.
    (2) Such section 104(b) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) If the Secretary of State and the Attorney General 
        jointly determine that sufficient capacity exists to replace 
        border crossing identification cards in advance of any of the 
        deadlines otherwise provided for under paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary and the Attorney General may by regulation advance 
        such deadlines.''.
    Sec. 117. (a) The President shall, with the submission of the 
President's fiscal year 2000 budget request, submit a Chapter in the 
Analytical Perspectives Volume (referred to in this section as the 
``Chapter'') presenting the specific dollar amounts budgeted, by 
appropriation account and by line item, for counterterrorism and 
antiterrorism programs, projects, or activities.
    (b) The Chapter shall provide a narrative outline of the content 
of, and detail the amounts budgeted for, each program, project, or 
activity for fiscal years 1998, 1999, 2000, and the succeeding 5 years 
of the Federal Counterterrorism Strategy.
    (c) If the President determines that certain portions of the 
information contained in the Chapter are of a sensitive, classified 
nature, then the President shall submit to Congress a classified 
version of the Chapter along with the unclassified version published in 
the Analytical Perspectives Volume of the President's fiscal year 2000 
budget request.
    Sec. 118. Section 402(a) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
U.S.C. 842(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``knowingly'' after 
        ``(5)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (10), by inserting ``knowingly'' after 
        ``(10)''.
    Sec. 119. Section 402(c)(1) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
U.S.C. 842(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        person who violates this section shall'' and inserting ``(A) 
        Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph and paragraph 
        (2), any person who violates this section may''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) In the case of a violation of paragraph (5) 
                or (10) of subsection (a) in which, a result of the 
                violation, no unauthorized person obtains unlawful 
                control of a controlled substance, the civil penalty 
                shall be not more than $500.''.
    Sec. 120. The General Accounting Office shall--
            (1) monitor the compliance of the Department of Justice and 
        all United States Attorneys with the ``Guidance on the Use of 
        the False Claims Act in Civil Health Care Matters'' issued by 
        the Department of Justice on June 3, 1998, including any 
        revisions to that guidance; and
            (2) not later than February 1, 1999, and again not later 
        than August 2, 1999, submit a report on such compliance to the 
        Committees on the Judiciary and the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$24,836,000, of which $2,500,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $45,500,000 to remain available until 
expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical 
coverage for dependent members of immediate families of employees 
stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel 
and transportation of employees of the United States and Foreign 
Commercial Service between two points abroad, without regard to 49 
U.S.C. 1517; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign 
countries; not to exceed $327,000 for official representation expenses 
abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, 
not to exceed $30,000 per vehicle; obtain insurance on official motor 
vehicles; and rent tie lines and teletype equipment; $310,167,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the $318,167,000 
provided for in direct obligations (of which $304,167,000 is 
appropriated from the General Fund, and $8,000,000 is derived from 
unobligated balances and deobligations from prior years and $6,000,000 
is from fees), $69,826,000 shall be for Trade Development, $20,379,000 
shall be for Market Access and Compliance, $31,047,000 shall be for the 
Import Administration, $177,000,000 shall be for the United States and 
Foreign Commercial Service, and $11,915,000 shall be for Executive 
Direction and Administration: Provided further, That the provisions of 
the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) 
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities without 
regard to section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 
1988 (15 U.S.C. 4912); and that for the purpose of this Act, 
contributions under the provisions of the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act shall include payment for assessments for 
services provided as part of these activities.

                         Export Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services 
abroad; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and 
expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; payment of tort claims, 
in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $15,000 for 
official representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to 
informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with 
special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to 
any price limitation otherwise established by law; $45,671,000 to 
remain available until expended, of which $1,877,000 shall be for 
inspections and other activities related to national security: 
Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) 
and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in 
carrying out these activities: Provided further, That payments and 
contributions collected and accepted for materials or services provided 
as part of such activities may be retained for use in covering the cost 
of such activities, and for providing information to the public with 
respect to the export administration and national security activities 
of the Department of Commerce and other export control programs of the 
United States and other governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, Public 
Law 91-304, and such laws that were in effect immediately before 
September 30, 1982, and for trade adjustment assistance, $280,775,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading may be used directly or indirectly for 
attorneys' or consultants' fees in connection with securing grants and 
contracts made by the Economic Development Administration: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Commerce may provide financial assistance for projects to 
be located on military installations closed or scheduled for closure or 
realignment to grantees eligible for assistance under the Public Works 
and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, without it being 
required that the grantee have title or ability to obtain a lease for 
the property, for the useful life of the project, when in the opinion 
of the Secretary of Commerce, such financial assistance is necessary 
for the economic development of the area: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Commerce may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, 
consult with the Secretary of Defense regarding the title to land on 
military installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $22,465,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title 
I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency Drought 
Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $25,276,000.

                Economic and Information Infrastructure

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$49,169,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                economics and statistics administration

                             revolving fund

    The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to disseminate economic and 
statistical data products as authorized by sections 1, 2, and 4 of 
Public Law 91-412 (15 U.S.C. 1525-1527) and, notwithstanding section 
5412 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 
4912), charge fees necessary to recover the full costs incurred in 
their production. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, receipts received 
from these data dissemination activities shall be credited to this 
account, to be available for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriation.

                          Bureau of the Census

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, 
$141,801,000.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For expenses necessary to conduct the decennial census, 
$848,503,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Department of Commerce shall submit a quarterly report to the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses on the status and 
implementation of key decennial census milestones during fiscal year 
1999.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $153,955,000, 
to remain available until expended.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $10,940,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies 
for costs incurred in spectrum management, analysis, and operations, 
and related services and such fees shall be retained and used as 
offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That hereafter, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, NTIA shall not authorize 
spectrum use or provide any spectrum functions pursuant to the NTIA 
Organization Act, 47 U.S.C. Sec. Sec.  902-903, to any Federal entity 
without reimbursement as required by NTIA for such spectrum management 
costs, and Federal entities withholding payment of such cost shall not 
use spectrum: Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce is 
authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections all funds 
transferred, or previously transferred, from other Government agencies 
for all costs incurred in telecommunications research, engineering, and 
related activities by the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of 
the NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions under this 
paragraph, and such funds received from other Government agencies shall 
remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $20,900,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $1,500,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of the Act, the prior 
year unobligated balances may be made available for grants for projects 
for which applications have been submitted and approved during any 
fiscal year.

                   information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $11,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $3,000,000 shall be available for program administration and 
other support activities as authorized by section 391: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be used to make a grant to an applicant that is an entity that is 
eligible to receive preferential rates or treatment under section 
254(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254(h)) or 
assistance under the regional information sharing systems grant program 
of the Department of Justice under part M of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796h).

                      Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Patent and Trademark Office provided 
for by law, including defense of suits instituted against the 
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, $785,526,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of this amount, $785,526,000 
shall be derived from offsetting collections assessed and collected 
pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 113 and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376 and shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General 
Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are received 
during fiscal year 1999, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $0: Provided further, 
That beginning on October 1, 1998, the Commissioner of Patents and 
Trademarks shall establish a surcharge on all fees charged under 35 
U.S.C. 41(a) and (b) in order to ensure that $132,000,000 is collected: 
Provided further, That surcharges established under this authority may 
take effect on October 1, 1998, and that Section 553 of title 5, United 
States Code, shall not apply to the establishment of such surcharges: 
Provided further, That upon enactment of a statute reauthorizing the 
Patent and Trademark Office or establishing a successor agency or 
agencies, and upon the subsequent establishment of a new patent fee 
schedule, the surcharge established in this Act shall expire: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 1999, should the total amount of 
offsetting collections be less than $785,526,000, the total amounts 
available to the Patent and Trademark Office shall be reduced 
accordingly: Provided further, That if the standard build-out costs of 
the Patent and Trademark Office exceed $36.69 per occupiable square 
feet in year 2000 dollars (the amount specified in the General Services 
Administration Advanced Acquisition program), including any above 
standard costs, and if the moving costs (which shall include the costs 
of moving, furniture, telephone, and data installation) shall exceed 
$135,000,000, the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Patents 
and Trademarks, or the head of any successor organization, shall notify 
the Committee on Appropriations and seek approval for any additional 
costs through the requirements of section 605 of this Act in order to 
provide for the activities covered by those costs.

                         Science and Technology

                       Technology Administration

       under secretary for technology/office of technology policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology/
Office of Technology Policy, $9,993,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,600,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $290,636,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be used to fund a cooperative agreement 
with Montana State University for a research program on green 
buildings; and of which not to exceed $1,625,000 may be transferred to 
the ``Working Capital Fund'': Provided, That $2,300,000 shall be used 
to expand the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award program 
established under section 17 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3711a): Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for 
the ``Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award'' may be obligated or 
expended unless such obligation or expenditure is expressly authorized 
by enactment of a subsequent Act.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership 
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, $106,800,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which not to exceed $300,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the time limitations imposed by 15 U.S.C. 278k(c) (1) 
and (5) on the duration of Federal financial assistance that may be 
awarded by the Secretary of Commerce to Regional Centers for the 
transfer of Manufacturing Technology (``Centers''), such Federal 
financial assistance for a Center may continue beyond six years and may 
be renewed for additional periods, not to exceed one year, at a rate 
not to exceed one-third of the Center's total annual costs, subject 
before any such renewal to a positive evaluation of the Center and to a 
finding by the Secretary of Commerce that continuation of Federal 
funding to the Center is in the best interest of the Regional Centers 
for the transfer of Manufacturing Technology Program: Provided further, 
That the Center's most recent performance evaluation is positive, and 
the Center has submitted a reapplication which has successfully passed 
merit review.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced Technology 
Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$192,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $38,700,000 shall be available for the award of new grants, and 
of which not to exceed $500,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund''.

                  construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation of existing 
facilities, not otherwise provided for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, 
$56,714,000, to remain available until expended.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft; grants, contracts, or other payments 
to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
pursuant to cooperative agreements; and relocation of facilities as 
authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; $1,608,914,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees and donations received by the National 
Ocean Service for the management of the national marine sanctuaries may 
be retained and used for the salaries and expenses associated with 
those activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, 
That in addition, $63,073,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
fund entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research 
Pertaining to American Fisheries'': Provided further, That grants to 
States pursuant to sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972, as amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided further, 
That unexpended balances in the accounts ``Construction'' and ``Fleet 
Modernization, Shipbuilding and Conversion'' shall be transferred to 
and merged with this account, to remain available until expended for 
the purposes for which the funds were originally appropriated: Provided 
further, That $587,922,000 shall be made available for the Procurement, 
acquisition and construction account in fiscal year 1999: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall make funds available to 
implement the mitigation recommendations identified subsequent to the 
``1995 Secretary's Report to Congress on Adequacy of NEXRAD Coverage 
and Degradation of Weather Services'' for Erie, PA; Williston, ND; 
Caribou, ME; and Key West, FL, and shall ensure continuation of weather 
service coverage for these communities until mitigation activities are 
completed: Provided further, That with respect to Erie, PA and 
Williston, ND, the Secretary shall integrate local radar data from such 
weather service offices into the advanced weather interactive 
processing system (AWIPS).

               procurement, acquisition and construction

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, $587,922,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That unexpended balances of amounts previously made 
available in the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' account and 
the ``Construction'' account for activities funded under this heading 
may be transferred to and merged with this account, to remain available 
until expended for the purposes for which the funds were originally 
appropriated.

                      coastal zone management fund

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed $4,000,000, for 
purposes set forth in sections 308(b)(2)(A), 308(b)(2)(B)(v), and 
315(e) of such Act.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $953,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                     foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as 
amended (Public Law 100-627), and the American Fisheries Promotion Act 
(Public Law 96-561), to be derived from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to 
exceed $189,000, to remain available until expended.

                   fisheries finance program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $388,000, as authorized by the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be used 
for direct loans for any new fishing vessel that will increase the 
harvesting capacity in any United States fishery.

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official entertainment, $31,765,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$20,662,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act 
shall be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 
26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed 
by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for 
advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such payments 
are in the public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that 
are under the control of the United States Air Force or the United 
States Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds provided in this or any previous Act, 
or hereinafter made available to the Department of Commerce, shall be 
available to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other fund or 
account of the Treasury to pay for any expenses paid before October 1, 
1992, as authorized by section 8501 of title 5, United States Code, for 
services performed after April 20, 1990, by individuals appointed to 
temporary positions within the Bureau of the Census for purposes 
relating to the 1990 decennial census of population.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. (a) Should legislation be enacted to dismantle or 
reorganize the Department of Commerce, or any portion thereof, the 
Secretary of Commerce, no later than 90 days thereafter, shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and the Senate a plan 
for transferring funds provided in this Act to the appropriate 
successor organizations: Provided, That the plan shall include a 
proposal for transferring or rescinding funds appropriated herein for 
agencies or programs terminated under such legislation: Provided 
further, That such plan shall be transmitted in accordance with section 
605 of this Act.
    (b) The Secretary of Commerce or the appropriate head of any 
successor organization(s) may use any available funds to carry out 
legislation dismantling or reorganizing the Department of Commerce, or 
any portion thereof, to cover the costs of actions relating to the 
abolishment, reorganization, or transfer of functions and any related 
personnel action, including voluntary separation incentives if 
authorized by such legislation: Provided, That the authority to 
transfer funds between appropriations accounts that may be necessary to 
carry out this section is provided in addition to authorities included 
under section 205 of this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to 
carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 207. Any costs incurred by a Department or agency funded under 
this title resulting from personnel actions taken in response to 
funding reductions included in this title or from actions taken for the 
care and protection of loan collateral or grant property shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
Department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 208. Section 401(e)(4)(B) of Public Law 105-83 is amended by 
striking ``majority vote, with each member'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof, ``the majority vote of the board members under paragraphs 
(3)(A), (F), and (G), the board member representing academia under 
paragraph (3)(K), and one of the board members under paragraph (3)(L) 
[as identified by the Governor], with each such member.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                        TITLE III--THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance, and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles 
as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve; $31,059,000.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the Act 
approved May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $5,871,000, to remain 
available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $15,631,000.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and eight judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$11,483,000.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges 
of the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the 
United States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate 
judges, and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary 
not otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $2,808,516,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $13,454,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects; and of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects: Provided, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, $7,150,000 shall be available only for the State 
Justice Institute.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,515,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act (18 U.S.C. 3006A(e)); the compensation (in 
accordance with Criminal Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel; the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians ad litem 
acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or incompetent offenders 
in connection with transfers from the United States to foreign 
countries with which the United States has a treaty for the execution 
of penal sentences; and the compensation of attorneys appointed to 
represent jurors in civil actions for the protection of their 
employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d); $360,952,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i).

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)); $68,721,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

                             court security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment and 
protective services for the United States Courts in courtrooms and 
adjacent areas, including building ingress-egress control, inspection 
of packages, directed security patrols, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access to 
Justice Act (Public Law 100-702); $176,873,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for security systems, 
to be expended directly or transferred to the United States Marshals 
Service which shall be responsible for administering elements of the 
Judicial Security Program consistent with standards or guidelines 
agreed to by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $54,682,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $17,716,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2000, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                       Judicial Retirement Funds

                    payment to judiciary trust funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $27,500,000; to the Judicial Survivors' 
Annuities Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), $7,800,000; and to 
the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), $2,000,000.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $9,374,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                   General Provisions--The Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 303. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States: Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $10,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in his capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304. Pursuant to section 140 of Public Law 97-92, justices and 
judges of the United States are authorized during fiscal year 1999, to 
receive a salary adjustment in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 461: Provided, 
That $6,893,000 is appropriated for salary adjustments pursuant to this 
section and such funds shall be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations in Title III of this Act.
    This title may be cited as ``The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

           TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including expenses authorized by 
the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended; 
representation to certain international organizations in which the 
United States participates pursuant to treaties, ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, or specific Acts of Congress; 
acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343, 40 U.S.C. 481(c), and 22 U.S.C. 2674; and 
for expenses of general administration; $1,685,094,000: Provided, That 
of the amount made available under this heading, not to exceed 
$4,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds in the 
``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' appropriations 
account, to be available only for emergency evacuations and terrorism 
rewards: Provided further, That of the amount made available under this 
heading, $500,000 shall be available only for the National Law Center 
for Inter-American Free Trade: Provided further, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, $13,000,000 shall be available only 
for the East-West Center: Provided further, That, hereafter, 
notwithstanding section 140(a)(5), and the second sentence of section 
140(a)(3), of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236), fees may be collected under the 
authority of section 140(a)(1) of that Act: Provided further, That all 
fees collected under the preceding proviso shall be deposited as an 
offsetting collection to appropriations made under this heading to 
recover costs as set forth under section 140(a)(2) of that Act and 
shall remain available until expended.
    In addition, not to exceed $700,000 in registration fees collected 
pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended, may 
be used in accordance with section 45 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2717); in addition not to exceed 
$1,252,000 shall be derived from fees collected from other executive 
agencies for lease or use of facilities located at the International 
Center in accordance with section 4 of the International Center Act 
(Public Law 90-553), as amended, and in addition, as authorized by 
section 5 of such Act $490,000, to be derived from the reserve 
authorized by that section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
section; and in addition not to exceed $15,000 which shall be derived 
from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House 
facilities in accordance with section 46 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2718(a)).

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of State and the Foreign Service, provided for by law, 
including expenses authorized by section 9 of the Act of August 31, 
1964, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3721), and the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, as amended, $349,474,000.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, 
$118,340,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized in 
Public Law 103-236: Provided, That section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 
shall not apply to funds available under this heading.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $27,495,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) 
of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (Public Law 96-465), as 
it relates to post inspections.

                       representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized by section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4085), and for 
necessary expenses as authorized by section 4 of the State Department 
Basic Authority Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2671), $6,500,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services in accordance 
with the provisions of section 214 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4314) and 3 U.S.C. 208, $7,900,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2000.

           security and maintenance of united states missions

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for, buildings that are owned or 
directly leased by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to 
funds otherwise available, the Main State Building, and carrying out 
the Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized by title IV 
of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 
U.S.C. 4851), $550,832,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)): Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of 
furniture and furnishings and generators for other departments and 
agencies.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service 
pursuant to the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3526(e), $3,500,000 to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 24(c) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)), of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
Repatriation Loans Program Account, subject to the same terms and 
conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $543,000, as authorized by section 4 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2671): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out 
the direct loan program, $457,000 which may be transferred to and 
merged with the Salaries and Expenses account under Administration of 
Foreign Affairs.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, 
Public Law 96-8, $14,490,000.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $132,500,000.

              International Organizations and Conferences

              contributions to international organizations

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $1,131,718,000, of 
which not to exceed $254,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for payment of arrearages: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for payment of 
arrearages may be obligated or expended unless such obligation or 
expenditure is expressly authorized by the enactment of an Act that 
makes payment of arrearages contingent upon reforms that include the 
following: a reduction in the United States assessed share of the 
United Nations regular budget to 20 percent and of peacekeeping 
operations to 25 percent; reimbursement for goods and services provided 
by the United States to the United Nations; certification that the 
United Nations and its specialized or affiliated agencies have not 
taken any action to infringe on the sovereignty of the United States; a 
ceiling on United States contributions to international organizations 
after fiscal year 1999 of $900,000,000; establishment of a merit-based 
personnel system at the United Nations that includes a code of conduct 
and a personnel evaluation system; United States membership on the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions that 
oversees the United Nations budget; access to United Nations financial 
data by the General Accounting Office; and achievement of a negative 
growth budget and the establishment of independent inspectors general 
for affiliated organizations; and improved consultation procedures with 
the Congress: Provided further, That any payment of arrearages shall be 
directed toward special activities that are mutually agreed upon by the 
United States and the respective international organization: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 402 of this Act, not to exceed 
$1,223,000 may be transferred from the funds made available under this 
heading to the ``International conferences and contingencies'' account 
for assessed contributions to new or provisional international 
organizations or for travel expenses of official delegates to 
international conferences: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant 
to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security $431,093,000, of which 
not to exceed $23,100,000 shall remain available until expended, and of 
which not to exceed $221,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for payment of arrearages: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for payment of 
arrearages may be obligated or expended unless such obligation or 
expenditure is expressly authorized by the enactment of an Act 
described in the first proviso under the heading ``Contributions to 
International Organizations'' in this title.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $17,490,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $6,463,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2696(c)).

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by Public Law 103-182; 
$5,490,000, of which not to exceed $9,000 shall be available for 
representation expenses incurred by the International Joint Commission.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $14,549,000: Provided, 
That the United States' share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  Arms Control and Disarmament Agency

                arms control and disarmament activities

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided, for arms control, 
nonproliferation, and disarmament activities, $43,400,000, of which not 
to exceed $50,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses as authorized by the Act of September 26, 1961, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2551 et seq.).

                    United States Information Agency

                   international information programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
United States Information Agency, as authorized by the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2451 et seq.), the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.), and Reorganization 
Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), to carry out international 
communication, educational and cultural activities; and to carry out 
related activities authorized by law, including employment, without 
regard to civil service and classification laws, of persons on a 
temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000 of this appropriation), as 
authorized by section 801 of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1471), and 
entertainment, including official receptions, within the United States, 
not to exceed $25,000 as authorized by section 804(3) of such Act of 
1948 (22 U.S.C. 1474(3)); $427,097,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$1,400,000 may be used for representation abroad as authorized by 
section 302 of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1452) and section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085): Provided further, That 
not to exceed $6,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be 
credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments received 
from or in connection with English teaching, library, motion pictures, 
and publication programs as authorized by section 810 of such Act of 
1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) and, notwithstanding any other law, fees from 
educational advising and counseling, and exchange visitor program 
services: Provided further, That not to exceed $920,000 to remain 
available until expended may be used to carry out projects involving 
security construction and related improvements for agency facilities 
not physically located together with Department of State facilities 
abroad.

                            technology fund

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to provide for the procurement of information technology 
improvements, as authorized by the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.), 
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended 
(22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 
Stat. 1636), $5,050,000, to remain available until expended.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized by the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, 
as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977 (91 Stat. 1636), $205,024,000, to remain available until expended 
as authorized by section 105 of such Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455): 
Provided, That not to exceed $800,000, to remain available until 
expended, may be credited to this appropriation from fees or other 
payments received from or in connection with English teaching and 
publication programs as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) and, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees from educational 
advising and counseling.

           eisenhower exchange fellowship program trust fund

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 1999, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in 
accordance with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative 
Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations), 
including the restrictions on compensation for personal services.

                    israeli arab scholarship program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 1999, to remain available until expended.

                 international broadcasting operations

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency, as authorized by the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, the United States International 
Broadcasting Act of 1994, as amended, and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977, to carry out international communication activities, 
$332,915,000, of which not to exceed $16,000 may be used for official 
receptions within the United States as authorized by section 804(3) of 
such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1747(3)), not to exceed $35,000 may be used 
for representation abroad as authorized by section 302 of such Act of 
1948 (22 U.S.C. 1452) and section 905 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), and not to exceed $39,000 may be used for 
official reception and representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty; and in addition, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, not to exceed $2,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue 
from business ventures, not to exceed $500,000 in receipts from 
cooperating international organizations, and not to exceed $1,000,000 
in receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the 
International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available until expended 
for carrying out authorized purposes.

                          broadcasting to cuba

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to carry out the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, as amended, the 
Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and the International Broadcasting 
Act of 1994, including the purchase, rent, construction, and 
improvement of facilities for radio and television transmission and 
reception, and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for 
radio and television transmission and reception, $22,095,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                           radio construction

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of facilities 
for radio transmission and reception, and purchase and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio and television transmission and reception 
as authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1471), $13,245,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 704(a) of 
such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1477b(a)).

                            east-west center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960 (22 U.S.C. 
2054-2057), by grant to the Center for Cultural and Technical 
Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, $12,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to 
pay any salary, or enter into any contract providing for the payment 
thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                           north/south center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the North/South Center Act 
of 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2075), by grant to an educational institution in 
Florida known as the North/South Center, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    national endowment for democracy

    For grants made by the United States Information Agency to the 
National Endowment for Democracy as authorized by the National 
Endowment for Democracy Act, $30,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agencies

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States Code; for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and hire of passenger 
transportation pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the United States Information Agency in this 
Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 20 percent by any such transfers: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
during the period specified in subsection (b) for arrearage payments to 
the United Nations for peacekeeping operations shall be reduced by an 
amount equal to 25 percent of the total expenditures of the United 
States between October 30, 1997 and February 23, 1998, as calculated by 
the Congressional Budget Office, made in response to efforts by Iraq to 
block United Nations-sanctioned inspections of Iraqi military and 
civilian facilities with respect to weapons of mass destruction.
    (b) The period specified in this subsection is the period beginning 
October 1, 1997, and ending September 30, 2000.
    Sec. 404. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Department of State or the United States Information Agency to 
provide equipment, technical support, training, consulting services, or 
any other form of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting 
Corporation or similar organization.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 1999 or any 
fiscal year thereafter may be obligated or expended to pay for any cost 
incurred for--
            (1) opening or operating any United States diplomatic or 
        consular post in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam that was not 
        operating on July 11, 1995;
            (2) expanding any United States diplomatic or consular post 
        in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam that was operating on July 
        11, 1995; or
            (3) increasing the total number of personnel assigned to 
        United States diplomatic or consular posts in the Socialist 
        Republic of Vietnam above the levels existing on July 11, 1995, 
        unless the President certifies within 60 days of the beginning 
        of each fiscal year the following:
                    (A) Based upon a formal assessment of all 
                information available to the United States Government, 
                including relevant information provided to the 
                President by the United States intelligence community, 
                the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is 
                being fully forthcoming and fully cooperating in good 
                faith with the United States in the following:
                            (i) Resolving discrepancy cases of 
                        unaccounted for American prisoners of war last 
                        known to be alive in areas of Vietnam and Laos 
                        controlled by North Vietnamese communist forces 
                        during the Vietnam conflict, supporting joint 
                        field activities and excavations, and resolving 
                        wartime and postwar live sightings and hearsay 
                        reports obtained by United States Government 
                        agencies which pertain to possible or confirmed 
                        prisoners of war or missing in action personnel 
                        in areas of Vietnam and Laos controlled by 
                        North Vietnamese communist forces during the 
                        Vietnam conflict.
                            (ii) Unilaterally recovering and 
                        repatriating American remains which came under 
                        the control of North Vietnamese communist 
                        forces in areas of Vietnam and Laos during the 
                        Vietnam conflict.
                            (iii) Accelerating efforts to unilaterally 
                        provide documents that can help lead to fullest 
                        possible accounting of American prisoners of 
                        war and missing in action personnel and 
                        providing full access to relevant information 
                        contained in communist party and other 
                        government archives of the Government of the 
                        Socialist Republic of Vietnam as referenced by 
                        the Assistant to the President for National 
                        Security Affairs in his letter to the Majority 
                        Leader of the United States Senate dated April 
                        10, 1997, and as referenced in the report to 
                        the Majority Leader of the United States Senate 
                        dated April 8, 1997 from the Chairman and Vice 
                        Chairman of the Select Committee on 
                        Intelligence of the United States Senate.
                            (iv) Providing expanded assistance in 
                        implementing trilateral investigations with 
                        Laos concerning unaccounted for American 
                        personnel.
                            (v) Resolving the concerns of the United 
                        States Government with respect to North 
                        Vietnamese reports collected and translated by 
                        the Main Intelligence Directorate of the 
                        Ministry of Defense of the Soviet Union in 1971 
                        and 1972 which reference a far higher number of 
                        American prisoners of war being held in 
                        captivity during the Vietnam conflict than 
                        those repatriated by North Vietnamese communist 
                        forces in February and March of 1973.
                    (B) The remains, artifacts, eyewitness accounts, 
                archival material, and other evidence associated with 
                prisoners of war and missing in action, including 
                civilians, recovered from crash sites, military 
                actions, and other locations in Southeast Asia are 
                being thoroughly analyzed by the appropriate 
                laboratories with the intent of providing surviving 
                relatives with scientifically defensible, legal 
                determinations of death or other accountability that 
                are fully documented and available in unclassified and 
                unredacted form to immediate family members.
    Sec. 406. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, the 
Secretary of State shall have discretionary authority to pay tort 
claims in the manner authorized by section 2672 of title 28, United 
States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries in connection 
with the overseas operations of the Department of State.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                       TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $97,650,000, to remain available until expended.

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $69,818,000: Provided, That reimbursements may be 
made to this appropriation from receipts to the ``Federal Ship 
Financing Fund'' for administrative expenses in support of that program 
in addition to any amount heretofore appropriated.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act, 1936, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,000,000,000.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year 
from the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 
1936, or otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations 
contained in this Act or in any prior appropriation Act, and all 
receipts which otherwise would be deposited to the credit of said fund 
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $250,000, as authorized by Public Law 99-83, section 
1303.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $8,900,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to 
employ in excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the 
Excepted Service exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 
75 billable days, with the exception of the Chairperson who is 
permitted 125 billable days.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,159,000, 
to remain available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public 
Law 99-7.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); non-monetary awards to 
private citizens; and not to exceed $27,500,000 for payments to State 
and local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant 
to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 
and 14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991; 
$253,580,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-02; not to exceed $600,000 for land and 
structure; not to exceed $500,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception 
and representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed 16) and hire of 
motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; $197,921,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 1999, for research and policy studies: 
Provided, That $172,523,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications 
Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
1999 so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation 
estimated at $25,398,000: Provided further, That any offsetting 
collections received in excess of $172,523,000 in fiscal year 1999 
shall remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 1999.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-02; $14,300,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $93,167,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$300,000 shall be available for use to contract with a person or 
persons for collection services in accordance with the terms of 31 
U.S.C. 3718, as amended: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $90,000,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected for premerger notification 
filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General Fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 1999, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation 
from the General Fund estimated at not more than $3,167,000: Provided 
further, That the fourth proviso under the heading ``Federal Trade 
Commission, Salaries and Expenses'' in Public Law 105-119 is repealed: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Federal 
Trade Commission shall be available for obligation for expenses 
authorized by section 151 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2282-2285).

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$300,000,000, of which $288,700,000 is for basic field programs and 
required independent audits; $300,000 is for grants for litigation 
associated with Aguilar v. United States; $2,015,000 is for the Office 
of Inspector General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be 
used to conduct additional audits of recipients; and $8,985,000 is for 
management and administration.

         administrative provisions--legal services corporation

    Sec. 501. (a) Continuation of Competitive Selection Process.--None 
of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services Corporation 
may be used to provide financial assistance to any person or entity 
except through a competitive selection process conducted in accordance 
with regulations promulgated by the Corporation in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 503 of 
Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-52 et seq.).
    (b) Inapplicability of Certain Procedures.--Sections 1007(a)(9) and 
1011 of the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996f(a)(9) and 
2996j) shall not apply to the provision, denial, suspension, or 
termination of any financial assistance using funds appropriated in 
this Act.
    (c) Additional Procedures.--If, during any term of a grant or 
contract awarded to a recipient by the Legal Services Corporation under 
the competitive selection process referred to in subsection (a) and 
applicable Corporation regulations, the Corporation finds, after notice 
and opportunity for the recipient to be heard, that the recipient has 
failed to comply with any requirement of the Legal Services Corporation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 2996 et seq.), this Act, or any other applicable law 
relating to funding for the Corporation, the Corporation may terminate 
the grant or contract and institute a new competitive selection process 
for the area served by the recipient, notwithstanding the terms of the 
recipient's grant or contract.
    Sec. 502. (a) Continuation of Requirements and Restrictions.--None 
of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services Corporation 
shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, or contrary 
to any of the provisions of--
            (1) sections 501, 502, 505, 506, and 507 of Public Law 104-
        134 (110 Stat. 1321-51 et seq.), and all funds appropriated in 
        this Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to 
        the same terms and conditions as set forth in such sections, 
        except that all references in such sections to 1995 and 1996 
        shall be deemed to refer instead to 1998 and 1999, 
        respectively; and
            (2) section 504 of Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-53 et 
        seq.), and all funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
        Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms and 
        conditions set forth in such section, except that--
                    (A) subsection (c) of such section 504 shall not 
                apply;
                    (B) paragraph (3) of section 508(b) of Public Law 
                104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-58) shall apply with respect to 
                the requirements of subsection (a)(13) of such section 
                504, except that all references in such section 508(b) 
                to the date of enactment shall be deemed to refer to 
                April 26, 1996; and
                    (C) subsection (a)(11) of such section 504 shall 
                not be construed to prohibit a recipient from using 
                funds derived from a source other than the Corporation 
                to provide related legal assistance to--
                            (i) an alien who has been battered or 
                        subjected to extreme cruelty in the United 
                        States by a spouse or a parent, or by a member 
                        of the spouse's or parent's family residing in 
                        the same household as the alien and the spouse 
                        or parent consented or acquiesced to such 
                        battery or cruelty; or
                            (ii) an alien whose child has been battered 
                        or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United 
                        States by a spouse or parent of the alien 
                        (without the active participation of the alien 
                        in the battery or extreme cruelty), or by a 
                        member of the spouse's or parent's family 
                        residing in the same household as the alien and 
                        the spouse or parent consented or acquiesced to 
                        such battery or cruelty, and the alien did not 
                        actively participate in such battery or 
                        cruelty.
    (b) Definitions.--For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(C):
            (1) The term ``battered or subjected to extreme cruelty'' 
        has the meaning given such term under regulations issued 
        pursuant to subtitle G of the Violence Against Women Act of 
        1994 (Public Law 103-322; 108 Stat. 1953).
            (2) The term ``related legal assistance'' means legal 
        assistance directly related to the prevention of, or obtaining 
        of relief from, the battery or cruelty described in such 
        subsection.
    Sec. 503. (a) Continuation of Audit Requirements.--The requirements 
of section 509 of Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-58 et seq.), other 
than subsection (l) of such section, shall apply during the current 
fiscal year.
    (b) Requirement of Annual Audit.--An annual audit of each person or 
entity receiving financial assistance from the Legal Services 
Corporation under this Act shall be conducted during the current fiscal 
year in accordance with the requirements referred to in subsection (a).
    Sec. 504. (a) Debarment.--The Legal Services Corporation may debar 
a recipient, on a showing of good cause, from receiving an additional 
award of financial assistance from the Corporation. Any such action to 
debar a recipient shall be instituted after the Corporation provides 
notice and an opportunity for a hearing to the recipient.
    (b) Regulations.--The Legal Services Corporation shall promulgate 
regulations to implement this section.
    (c) Good Cause.--In this section, the term ``good cause'', used 
with respect to debarment, includes--
            (1) prior termination of the financial assistance of the 
        recipient, under part 1640 of title 45, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (or any similar corresponding regulation or 
        ruling);
            (2) prior termination in whole, under part 1606 of title 
        45, Code of Federal Regulations (or any similar corresponding 
        regulation or ruling), of the most recent financial assistance 
        received by the recipient, prior to date of the debarment 
        decision;
            (3) substantial violation by the recipient of the statutory 
        or regulatory restrictions that prohibit recipients from using 
        financial assistance made available by the Legal Services 
        Corporation or other financial assistance for purposes 
        prohibited under the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2996 et seq.) or for involvement in any activity prohibited by, 
        or inconsistent with, section 504 of Public Law 104-134 (110 
        Stat. 1321-53 et seq.), section 502(a)(2) of Public Law 104-208 
        (110 Stat. 3009-59 et seq.), or section 502(a)(2) of this Act;
            (4) knowing entry by the recipient into a subgrant, 
        subcontract, or other agreement with an entity that had been 
        debarred by the Corporation; or
            (5) the filing of a lawsuit by the recipient, on behalf of 
        the recipient, as part of any program receiving any Federal 
        funds, naming the Corporation, or any agency or employee of a 
        Federal, State, or local government, as a defendant.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,240,000.

                       Commission on Ocean Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Commission on Ocean Policy, 
pursuant to S. 1213 as passed by the Senate in November 1996, 
$3,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Commission shall present to the Congress with 18 months its 
recommendations for a national ocean policy.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $341,098,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 
may be used toward funding a permanent secretariat for the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions, and of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses for consultations 
and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign governmental and 
other regulatory officials, members of their delegations, appropriate 
representatives and staff to exchange views concerning developments 
relating to securities matters, development and implementation of 
cooperation agreements concerning securities matters and provision of 
technical assistance for the development of foreign securities markets, 
such expenses to include necessary logistic and administrative expenses 
and the expenses of Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance 
at such consultations and meetings including: (1) such incidental 
expenses as meals taken in the course of such attendance, (2) any 
travel and transportation to or from such meetings, and (3) any other 
related lodging or subsistance: Provided, That fees and charges 
authorized by sections 6(b)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
77f(b)(4)) and 31(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
78ee(d)) and collected in fiscal year 1999 shall be credited to this 
account as offsetting collections: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$341,098,000 of such offsetting collections shall be available until 
expended for necessary expenses of this account: Provided further, That 
the total amount appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 
1999 under this heading shall be reduced as all such offsetting fees 
are deposited to this appropriation so as to result in no fiscal year 
1999 appropriation from the General Fund.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 103-403, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $265,000,000: Provided, That the Administrator 
is authorized to charge fees to cover the cost of publications 
developed by the Small Business Administration, and certain loan 
servicing activities: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to 
this account, to be available for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriations: Provided further, That $85,000,000 shall be 
available to fund grants for performance in fiscal year 1998 or fiscal 
year 1999 as authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act, as 
amended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11, as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$10,500,000.

                     business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $3,816,000, and the cost of 
guaranteed loans, $143,000,000, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974: Provided further, That of the funds previously made available 
under Public Law 105-135, section 507(g), for the Delta Loan program, 
up to $20,000,000 may be transferred to this appropriation and used for 
necessary expenses of the agency: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 1999, commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the 
Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, shall not exceed the 
amount of financings authorized under section 20(n)(2)(B) of the Small 
Business Act, as amended: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
1999, commitments for general business loans authorized under section 
7(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended, shall not exceed 
$10,000,000,000 without prior notification of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate in accordance 
with section 605 of this Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $94,000,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program, 
$94,000,000, including not to exceed $500,000 for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan program, and said sums 
shall be transferred to and merged with appropriations for the Office 
of Inspector General.

                 surety bond guarantees revolving fund

    For additional capital for the ``Surety Bond Guarantees Revolving 
Fund'', authorized by the Small Business Investment Act, as amended, 
$3,300,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note.

        administrative provision--small business administration

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Small Business Administration in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-572 (106 Stat. 4515-4516)), $6,850,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 1999, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) 
eliminates a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or 
personnel by any means for any project or activity for which funds have 
been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) 
reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or 
privatizes any functions, or activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 20 percent, whichever is more, that: (1) augments 
existing programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 20 percent 
funding for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of 
personnel by 20 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from 
any general savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in 
a change in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
Congress; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds.
    Sec. 606. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul, 
conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside of the United 
States.
    Sec. 607. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on 
religion, when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to 
which such funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ 
in any respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission 
on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 609. None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used to provide the following amenities or personal comforts in the 
Federal prison system--
            (1) in-cell television viewing except for prisoners who are 
        segregated from the general prison population for their own 
        safety;
            (2) the viewing of R, X, and NC-17 rated movies, through 
        whatever medium presented;
            (3) any instruction (live or through broadcasts) or 
        training equipment for boxing, wrestling, judo, karate, or 
        other martial art, or any bodybuilding or weightlifting 
        equipment of any sort;
            (4) possession of in-cell coffee pots, hot plates or 
        heating elements; or
            (5) the use or possession of any electric or electronic 
        musical instrument.
    Sec. 610. Any costs incurred by a Department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such Department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to 
authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use 
of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 611. None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons may be used to distribute or make available 
any commercially published information or material to a prisoner when 
it is made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate 
or expend such funds that such information or material is sexually 
explicit or features nudity.
    Sec. 612. Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Office of Justice Programs--state and local law enforcement 
assistance'', not more than 90 percent of the amount to be awarded to 
an entity under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant shall be made 
available to such an entity when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that the 
entity that employs a public safety officer (as such term is defined in 
section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968) does not provide such a public safety officer who retires 
or is separated from service due to injury suffered as the direct and 
proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty 
while responding to an emergency situation or a hot pursuit (as such 
terms are defined by State law) with the same or better level of health 
insurance benefits at the time of retirement or separation as they 
received while on duty.
    Sec. 613. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act shall be used to issue visas to any person who--
            (1) has been credibly alleged to have ordered, carried out, 
        or materially assisted in the extrajudicial and political 
        killings of Antoine Izmery, Guy Malary, Father Jean-Marie 
        Vincent, Pastor Antoine Leroy, Jacques Fleurival, Mireille 
        Durocher Bertin, Eugene Baillergeau, Michelange Hermann, Max 
        Mayard, Romulus Dumarsais, Claude Yves Marie, Mario Beaubrun, 
        Leslie Grimar, Joseph Chilove, Michel Gonzalez, and Jean-Hubert 
        Feuille;
            (2) has been included in the list presented to former 
        President Jean-Bertrand Aristide by former National Security 
        Council Advisor Anthony Lake in December 1995, and acted upon 
        by President Rene Preval;
            (3) was sought for an interview by the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation as part of its inquiry into the March 28, 1995, 
        murder of Mireille Durocher Bertin and Eugene Baillergeau, Jr., 
        and was credibly alleged to have ordered, carried out, or 
        materially assisted in those murders, per a June 28, 1995, 
        letter to the then Minister of Justice of the Government of 
        Haiti, Jean-Joseph Exume;
            (4) was a member of the Haitian High Command during the 
        period 1991 through 1994, and has been credibly alleged to have 
        planned, ordered, or participated with members of the Haitian 
        Armed Forces in--
                    (A) the September 1991 coup against any person who 
                was a duly elected government official of Haiti (or a 
                member of the family of such official), or
                    (B) the murders of thousands of Haitians during the 
                period 1991 through 1994; or
            (5) has been credibly alleged to have been a member of the 
        paramilitary organization known as FRAPH who planned, ordered, 
        or participated in acts of violence against the Haitian people.
    (b) Exemption.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
State finds, on a case-by-case basis, that the entry into the United 
States of a person who would otherwise be excluded under this section 
is necessary for medical reasons or such person has cooperated fully 
with the investigation of these political murders. If the Secretary of 
State exempts any such person, the Secretary shall notify the 
appropriate congressional committees in writing.
    (c) Reporting Requirement.--(1) The United States chief of mission 
in Haiti shall provide the Secretary of State a list of those who have 
been credibly alleged to have ordered or carried out the extrajudicial 
and political killings mentioned in paragraph (1) of subsection (a).
    (2) The Secretary of State shall submit the list provided under 
paragraph (1) to the appropriate congressional committees not later 
than 3 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (3) The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a list of aliens denied visas, and the 
Attorney General shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a list of aliens refused entry to the United States as a 
result of this provision.
    (4) The Secretary of State shall submit a report under this 
subsection not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this 
Act and not later than March 1 of each year thereafter as long as the 
Government of Haiti has not completed the investigation of the 
extrajudicial and political killings and has not prosecuted those 
implicated for the killings specified in paragraph (1) of subsection 
(a).
    (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means the Committee on International 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 614. (a)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act or 
any other Act hereafter enacted may be used to issue or renew a fishing 
permit or authorization for any fishing vessel of the United States 
greater than 165 feet in registered length, of more than 750 gross 
registered tons, or that has an engine or engines capable of producing 
more than 3,000 shaft horsepower that would allow such vessel to engage 
in fishing in any fishery within the exclusive economic zone of the 
United States (except territories), unless a certificate of 
documentation had been issued for the vessel, endorsed with a fishery 
endorsement that was effective on September 25, 1997, and endorsed with 
a fishery endorsement at all times thereafter, or unless the 
appropriate regional fishery management council recommends after the 
date the enactment of this Act, and the Secretary approves, a fishery 
management plan or amendment that specifically allows such a vessel to 
engage in such fishing.
    (2) Any fishing permit or authorization issued or renewed prior to 
the date of the enactment of this Act for a fishing vessel that exceeds 
the length, tonnage, or horsepower thresholds in paragraph (1) that 
would allow such vessel to engage in fishing for any Atlantic mackerel 
or herring (or both) in the waters off the east coast of the United 
States during fiscal year 1999 shall be null and void unless the 
appropriate regional fishery management council has recommended and the 
Secretary has approved a fishery management plan or plan amendment that 
specifically allows such vessel to engage in such fishing.
    (3) The prohibition in this subsection shall not apply to fishing 
vessels in the menhaden fishery, which occurs primarily outside the 
exclusive economic zone of the United States.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act or in any other 
Act hereafter enacted may be used to issue an individual fishing quota 
under a fishery management plan or plan amendment approved by a 
regional fishery management council after September 30, 2000 to an 
individual who is not a citizen of the United States or (as determined 
by the Maritime Administration) to a corporation, partnership, 
association, trust, joint venture, or other entity in which less than 
75 percent controlling interest in such entity, in the aggregate, is 
owned by citizens of the United States.
    Sec. 615. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the expenses of an election officer appointed by a court to 
oversee an election of any officer or trustee for the International 
Brotherhood of Teamsters.
    Sec. 616. (a) In General.--Section 1303 of the International 
Security and Development Corporation Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 469j) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``21'' and inserting ``15''; and
                    (B) by striking ``7'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``5''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``three'' and inserting 
        ``six''.
    (b) Savings Provision.--The enactment of the amendments made by 
paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall not require any person appointed 
as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad before the date of enactment of this Act to terminate 
his or her service prior to the expiration of his or her current term 
of service.
    Sec. 617. Japan-United States Friendship Commission. (a) Relief 
From Restriction of Interchangeability of Funds.--Section 6(4) of the 
Japan-United States Friendship Act (22 U.S.C. 2905(4)) is amended by 
striking ``needed, except'' and all that follows through ``United 
States'' and inserting ``needed''.
    (b) The second sentence of section 7(b) of the Japan-United States 
Friendship Act (22 U.S.C. 2906(b)) is amended to read as follows: 
``Such investment may be made in only interest-bearing obligations of 
the United States, in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and 
interest by the United States, in interest-bearing obligations of 
Japan, or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest 
by Japan.''.
    Sec. 618. Study on Internet Access and Communications and the 
Taxation of the Internet. (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' has the meaning 
        provided that term in section 230(e)(1) of the Communications 
        Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 230(e)(1)).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce.
    (b) Study and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 1999, the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, shall conduct a study under this 
        section and submit to the Committee on Appropriations a report 
        on the results of the study.
            (2) Contents of study.--The study conducted by the 
        Secretary under this section shall examine--
                    (A) the taxation of the Internet by States and 
                political subdivisions thereof;
                    (B) access to the Internet; and
                    (C) communications and transactions conducted 
                through the Internet.
            (3) Effects of taxation.--With respect to the taxation of 
        the Internet, the study conducted by the Secretary under this 
        section shall examine the extent to which--
                    (A) that taxation may impede the progress and 
                development of the Internet; and
                    (B) the effect that taxation may have with respect 
                to the efforts of the President to keep the Internet 
                free of discriminatory taxes on an international level.
    Sec. 619. (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to allow for 
the investment of joint Federal and State funds from the civil 
settlement of damages from the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
    (b) Investment of Joint Trust Funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, upon the joint motion of the United States and the 
State of Alaska and the issuance of an appropriate order by the United 
States District Court for the District of Alaska, the joint trust funds 
or any portion thereof, including any interest accrued thereon, 
previously received or to be received by the United States and the 
State of Alaska pursuant to the Agreement and Consent Decree issued in 
United States v. Exxon Corporation, et al. (No. A91-082 CIV) and State 
of Alaska v. Exxon Corporation, et al. (No. A91-083 CIV) (hereafter 
referred to as the ``Consent Decree''), may be deposited in appropriate 
accounts outside the Court Registry, including the Natural Resource 
Damage Assessment and Restoration Fund (hereafter referred to as the 
``Fund'') established in title I of the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 (Public Law 102-154, 43 
U.S.C. 1474b) and such accounts outside the United States Treasury 
consisting of income-producing obligations and other instruments or 
securities of a type or class that have been determined unanimously by 
the Federal and State natural resource trustees for the Exxon Valdez 
oil spill to have a high degree of reliability and security: Provided, 
That any joint trust funds in the Fund and any such outside accounts 
that have been approved unanimously by the trustees for expenditure by 
or through a State or Federal agency shall be transferred promptly from 
the Fund and such outside accounts to the State or United States upon 
the joint request of the governments: Provided further, That the 
transfer of joint trust funds outside the Court Registry shall not 
affect the supervisory jurisdiction of such District Court under the 
Consent Decree or the Memorandum of Agreement and Consent Decree in 
United States v. State of Alaska (No. A91-081-CIV) over all 
expenditures of the joint trust funds: Provided further, That nothing 
herein shall affect the requirement of section 207 of the Dire 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers for Relief From the 
Effects of Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs, and for the 
Incremental Cost of ``Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm'' Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102-229, 42 U.S.C. 1474b note) that amounts received 
by the United States and designated by the trustees for the expenditure 
by or through a Federal agency must be deposited into the Fund: 
Provided further, That any interest accrued under the authority in this 
section may be used only for grants for marine research and monitoring 
(including applied fisheries research) and for community and economic 
restoration projects (including projects proposed by the fishing 
industry and facilities): Provided further, That the Federal trustees 
are hereby authorized to administer such grants: Provided further, That 
the authority provided in this section shall expire on September 30, 
2002, unless by September 30, 2001 the trustees have submitted to the 
Congress legislation to establish a board to administer funds invested, 
interest received, and grants awarded from such interest.

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          working capital fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading on 
September 30, 1997, $45,326,000 are rescinded.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                             (rescissions)

    Of the funds provided in previous Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``Construction, 1996'', $6,000,000.
            ``Construction, 1998'', $4,000,000.
            ``Salaries and Expenses-Legal Attache, 1998'', $4,178,000.
            ``Salaries and Expenses, no year'', $6,400,000.
            ``Violent Crime Reduction Program, 1996'', $2,000,000.
            ``Violent Crime Reduction Program, 1997'', $300,000.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                             (rescissions)

    Of the funds provided in previous Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``United States Travel and Tourism Administration, no 
        year'', $915,000.
    ``Endowment for Children's Educational TV, no year'', $1,175,000.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999''.


                                                       Calendar No. 449

105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2260

                          [Report No. 105-235]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 2, 1998

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar