[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2159 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 409
105th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2159

                          [Report No. 105-212]

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 11, 1998

    Mr. Cochran, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                 Production, Processing, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,836,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service, shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary.

                          Executive Operations

                            chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, and the functions of 
the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $5,000 is for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,048,000.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                 Office of Budget and Program Analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,986,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,551,000.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,283,000: 
Provided, That the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market cross-
servicing activities of the National Finance Center.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded by this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, $132,184,000: 
Provided, That in the event an agency within the Department should 
require modification of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made available by this 
Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of this 
appropriation to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall 
not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for space rental and 
related costs to or from this account. In addition, for construction, 
repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed 
equipment or facilities as necessary to carry out the programs of the 
Department, where not otherwise provided, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended; making a total appropriation of $137,184,000.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery 
Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to the 
Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be transferred to any 
agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                      Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $27,034,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of 
the Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous 
supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the 
practical and efficient work of the Department, including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
reimbursed from applicable appropriations in this Act for travel 
expenses incident to the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 
551-558.

              outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

     Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
by this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,668,000: Provided, That no 
other funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be 
available to the Department for support of activities of congressional 
relations: Provided further, That not less than $2,241,000 shall be 
transferred to agencies funded by this Act to maintain personnel at the 
agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the 
dissemination of agricultural information, and the coordination of 
information, work, and programs authorized by Congress in the 
Department, $8,138,000, including employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
of which not to exceed $10,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' 
bulletins.

                    Office of the Inspector General

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $63,128,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed $125,000, for certain 
confidential operational expenses, including the payment of informants, 
to be expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to 
Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of Public Law 97-98: Provided, That 
funds transferred to the Office of the Inspector General through 
forfeiture proceedings or from the Department of Justice Assets 
Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as a 
participating agency, as an equitable share from the forfeiture of 
property in investigations in which the Office of the Inspector General 
participates, or through the granting of a Petition for Remission or 
Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this account for law 
enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector General Act of 
1978, to remain available until expended.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$28,759,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$53,109,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and 
improvements, marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture, as 
authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-
1627), the Census of Agriculture Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-113), and 
other laws, $103,964,000, of which up to $23,599,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

                     Agricultural Research Service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent 
of the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $767,921,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available for temporary employment pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not 
to exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for 
ten buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$500,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center, including an easement to the University 
of Maryland to construct the Transgenic Animal Facility which upon 
completion shall be accepted by the Secretary as a gift: Provided 
further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement 
of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 
113a): Provided further, That funds may be received from any State, 
other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the 
purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or research 
project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.
    In the fiscal year 1999, the agency is authorized to charge fees, 
commensurate with the fair market value, for any permit, easement, 
lease, or other special use authorization for the occupancy or use of 
land and facilities (including land and facilities at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center) issued by the agency, as authorized by 
law, and such fees shall be credited to this account, and remain 
available until expended, for authorized purposes.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $45,430,000, 
to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That 
funds may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any 
research facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized 
by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $173,796,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-i); $21,112,000 for grants for cooperative forestry 
research (16 U.S.C. 582a-a7); $28,567,000 for payments to the 1890 
land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3222); 
$49,200,000 for special grants for agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)); $15,048,000 for special grants for agricultural research on 
improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $97,200,000 for competitive 
research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); $4,918,000 for the support of 
animal health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195); $550,000 for 
supplemental and alternative crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); 
$600,000 for grants for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural 
Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and section 1472 of the Food and 
Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until 
expended; $3,000,000 for higher education graduate fellowship grants (7 
U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b); $4,350,000 for higher education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(1)); $1,000,000 for a higher education multicultural scholars 
program (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b); $2,500,000 for an education grants program for Hispanic-
serving Institutions (7 U.S.C. 3241); $4,000,000 for aquaculture grants 
(7 U.S.C. 3322); $8,000,000 for sustainable agriculture research and 
education (7 U.S.C. 5811); $9,200,000 for a program of capacity 
building grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive 
funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), 
including Tuskegee University, to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b); $1,494,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions 
pursuant to section 534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $10,247,000 
for necessary expenses of Research and Education Activities, of which 
not to exceed $100,000 shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in 
all, $434,782,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.

              Native American Institutions Endowment Fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                          Extension Activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: 
For payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, 
to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under 
section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail 
for cooperative extension agents and State extension directors, 
$276,548,000; payments for extension work at the 1994 Institutions 
under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $2,060,000; payments 
for the nutrition and family education program for low-income areas 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $58,695,000; payments for the pest 
management program under section 3(d) of the Act, $10,783,000; payments 
for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,855,000; 
payments for the pesticide impact assessment program under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $3,214,000; payments to upgrade 1890 land-grant college 
research, extension, and teaching facilities as authorized by section 
1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $8,304,000, to remain 
available until expended; payments for the rural development centers 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $908,000; payments for a groundwater 
quality program under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,061,000; payments for 
the agricultural telecommunications program, as authorized by Public 
Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), $900,000; payments for youth-at-risk 
programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,554,000; payments for a food 
safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,365,000; payments for 
carrying out the provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 
1978, $3,192,000; payments for Indian reservation agents under section 
3(d) of the Act, $1,756,000; payments for sustainable agriculture 
programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural 
health and safety education as authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 
101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 2662), $2,628,000; payments for 
cooperative extension work by the colleges receiving the benefits of 
the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328) and Tuskegee 
University, $25,843,000; and for Federal administration and 
coordination including administration of the Smith-Lever Act, and the 
Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-349), and section 1361(c) of 
the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), and to coordinate and 
provide program leadership for the extension work of the Department and 
the several States and insular possessions, $10,206,000; in all, 
$432,181,000: Provided, That funds hereby appropriated pursuant to 
section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 1953, and section 506 of the Act of 
June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to any State, the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, 
Northern Marianas, and American Samoa prior to availability of an equal 
sum from non-Federal sources for expenditure during the current fiscal 
year.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; to 
discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act 
of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and to protect the 
environment, as authorized by law, $424,473,000, of which $3,099,000 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to 
the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, That no 
funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
eradication program for the current fiscal year that does not require 
minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance 
of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall 
be for replacement only: Provided further, That, in addition, in 
emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural production 
industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from other 
appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations of 
the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, and section 
102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, and any unexpended balances of 
funds transferred for such emergency purposes in the next preceding 
fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred amounts: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings 
and improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of altering 
any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of 
the current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 1999, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
     Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
1999, $95,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $4,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, 
and regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration 
and coordination of payments to States; including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $45,567,000, including funds for the wholesale market 
development program for the design and development of wholesale and 
farmer market facilities for the major metropolitan areas of the 
country: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $59,521,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $10,998,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act 
of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain 
under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, including field 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $26,390,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

                    inspection and weighing services

         limitation on inspection and weighing service expenses

    Not to exceed $42,557,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

             office of the under secretary for food safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the 
Congress for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, $605,149,000, and in addition, 
$1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees collected for the 
cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 of 
Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of the Egg 
Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$710,842,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to 
and merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall 
be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, 
and in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, 
at a fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove 
his milk from commercial markets because of: (1) the presence of 
products of nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic 
substances not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 
13, 1968 (7 U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were 
not used in a manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling 
instructions provided at the time of use and the contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer, $450,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained 
in this Act shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer 
whose milk was removed from commercial markets as a result of the 
farmer's willful failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That this amount shall be transferred to 
the Commodity Credit Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary 
is authorized to utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy 
indemnity disbursements.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $488,872,000, of which $425,000,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $1,788,378,000, of which 
$992,906,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$235,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe 
land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $40,000,000; and for credit sales of 
acquired property, $25,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $16,320,000, of which 
$6,758,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $70,337,000, 
of which $11,518,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$20,539,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $153,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $5,900,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $576,000; and for credit sales of acquired 
property, $3,260,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $219,861,000, of which 
$209,861,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                         Risk Management Agency

                 administrative and operating expenses

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 6933), 
$64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                federal crop insurance corporation fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1999, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse 
the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but 
not previously reimbursed (estimated to be $8,439,000,000 in the 
President's fiscal year 1999 Budget Request (H. Doc. 105-177)), but not 
to exceed $8,439,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 
17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).

       operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1999, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, 
That expenses shall be for operations and maintenance costs only and 
that other hazardous waste management costs shall be paid for by the 
USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, $693,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the programs administered 
by the Natural Resources Conservation Service, including the provisions 
of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation 
of conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil 
and water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$638,231,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,835,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $9,025,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal 
land, that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 
U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for technical assistance and related expenses to carry out 
programs authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River 
Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation may be expended for soil 
and water conservation operations under the Act of April 27, 1935 in 
demonstration projects: Provided further, That this appropriation shall 
be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$25,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That qualified local engineers may be temporarily employed at 
per diem rates to perform the technical planning work of the Service 
(16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1009), $11,190,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing 
works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1005, 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 
U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $101,036,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 may be 
available for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act 
approved June 22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $200,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 of this appropriation is available to carry out the purposes 
of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), including 
cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to relocate endangered 
or threatened species to other suitable habitats as may be necessary to 
expedite project construction.

                 resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant 
to the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones 
Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of April 
27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 
(16 U.S.C. 3451-3461), $34,377,000, to remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                      forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
the program of forestry incentives, as authorized by the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

                               TITLE III

           RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the 
Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

                  rural community advancement program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, and 1932, except for 
sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f), $700,201,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $29,786,000 shall be for rural community programs described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act; 
of which $622,522,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs 
described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; and of which $47,893,000 
shall be for the rural business and cooperative development programs 
described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated for the rural business and cooperative development 
programs, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for a grant to 
a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance for 
rural transportation in order to promote economic development: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, 3 percent shall be 
reserved for federally recognized Indian tribes through July 31, 1999, 
and if not used by Indian tribes shall be available for use by other 
qualified applicants: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available under 7 
U.S.C. 381O and shall be used only for demonstration programs: Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated for rural utilities programs, 
not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal systems 
to benefit the Colonias along the United States/Mexico border, 
including grants pursuant to section 306C of such Act; not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal systems for rural and 
native villages in Alaska pursuant to section 306D of such Act; not to 
exceed $16,215,000 shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act; and not to 
exceed $5,200,000 shall be for contracting with qualified national 
organizations for a circuit rider program to provide technical 
assistance for rural water systems: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $33,926,000 shall be available 
through June 30, 1999, for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66, of which $1,844,000 
shall be for rural community programs described in section 381E(d)(1) 
of such Act; of which $24,900,100 shall be for the rural utilities 
programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; of which 
$8,134,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative development 
programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act.

                         rural housing service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $4,000,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $3,000,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $30,000,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $75,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family 
housing loans; $15,758,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$128,640,000 for section 515 rental housing; $5,000,000 for section 524 
site loans; $25,000,000 for credit sales of acquired property, of which 
up to $4,000,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and $5,000,000 
for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $120,900,000, of which 
$2,700,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $10,569,000; section 538 multi-family housing 
guaranteed loans, $1,740,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$8,199,000; section 515 rental housing, $62,069,000; section 524 site 
loans, $16,000; credit sales of acquired property, $3,826,000, of which 
up to $1,932,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and section 523 
self-help housing land development loans, $282,000: Provided, That of 
the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, $10,380,100 shall be 
for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by 
Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 
1999, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes under 
this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $360,785,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$583,397,000; and, in addition, such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount, not 
more than $5,900,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or 
payments for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) 
of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to 
nonprofit organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other 
than purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to 
section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements 
entered into or renewed during fiscal year 1999 shall be funded for a 
five-year period, although the life of any such agreement may be 
extended to fully utilize amounts obligated.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $26,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 1999, they shall remain available for other 
authorized purposes under this head.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants and contracts for housing for domestic farm labor, very 
low-income housing repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, and rural housing preservation 
made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 
1479(c), 1486, 1490e, and 1490m, $45,720,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,372,000 
shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds 
are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by 
June 30, 1999, they shall remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, and 
cooperative agreements, $60,978,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

              rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,615,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $33,000,000: Provided 
further, That through June 30, 1999, of the total amount appropriated, 
$3,215,520 shall be available for the cost of direct loans for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by title 
XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, $7,246,000: 
Provided further, That if such funds are not obligated for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 1999, they shall remain 
available for other authorized purposes under this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $3,482,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$23,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$5,801,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments in fiscal year 1999, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $3,783,000 shall not be obligated and 
$3,783,000 are rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $3,000,000, of which $1,300,000 shall be available for 
cooperative agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for 
rural areas program and $250,000 shall be available for an agribusiness 
and cooperative development program.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act; section 1323 of the Food Security Act 
of 1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities relating 
to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946; for 
activities with institutions concerning the development and operation 
of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$25,680,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $260,000 may be 
used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

  Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation 
                             Revolving Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$7,000,000 are appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research 
and Commercialization Corporation Revolving Fund.

                        Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $71,500,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $250,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $295,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that 
Act, rural electric, $700,000,000 and rural telecommunications, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of direct loans, $16,667,000; 
cost of municipal rate loans, $25,842,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $675,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower 
interest rates may exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs. During fiscal year 1999 and within the 
resources and authority available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $140,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
$3,710,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

               Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., $12,680,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
available for loans and grants for telemedicine and distance learning 
services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of direct loans shall 
be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $33,000,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$554,000.

                        Child Nutrition Programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$9,219,897,000, to remain available through September 30, 2000, of 
which $4,171,747,000 are hereby appropriated and $5,048,150,000 shall 
be derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act 
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That up to $4,300,000 
shall be available for independent verification of school food service 
claims.

Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children 
                                 (WIC)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,924,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2000: Provided, That up to $15,000,000 may be 
used to carry out the farmers' market nutrition program: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
administrative expenses of WIC clinics, except those that have an 
announced policy of prohibiting smoking within the space used to carry 
out the program: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in 
this account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula 
except in accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
1966.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $23,781,806,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be placed 
in reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That not to exceed 
$5,700,000 of the funds made available under this head shall be used 
for studies and evaluations: Provided further, That funds provided 
herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food 
Stamp Act: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be subject 
to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be required by 
law: Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and 
Training under this head shall remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act.

                      Commodity Assistance Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) and the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, $141,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program.

              food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note), and section 
311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $141,081,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2000.

                      food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $109,069,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $131,795,000: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, 
up to $2,000,000 is available solely for the purpose of offsetting 
fluctuations in international currency exchange rates and these funds 
and any other funds that are deposited into the overseas exchange rate 
account shall be available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation 
for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the International Development 
Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 2392).
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

               public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1704, 1721-1726a, 1727-1727e, 1731-1736g-3, 
and 1737), as follows: (1) $203,475,000 for Public Law 480 title I 
credit, including Food for Progress programs; (2) $17,608,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985; (3) $837,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title II of said Act; and (4) $30,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title III of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 15 percent of the 
funds made available to carry out any title of said Act may be used to 
carry out any other title of said Act: Provided further, That such sums 
shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, including the cost of modifying credit 
agreements under said Act, $176,596,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public 
Law 480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, 
to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are utilized, 
$1,850,000, of which $1,035,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales 
Manager'' and $815,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

       commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$3,820,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $3,231,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager'' and $589,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $1,072,640,000, of which not to 
exceed $132,273,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this appropriation and 
remain available until expended: Provided, That fees derived from 
applications received during fiscal year 1999 shall be subject to the 
fiscal year 1999 limitation: Provided further, That none of these funds 
shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user 
fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this account, to remain 
available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$12,350,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

  payments to the farm credit system financial assistance corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, for reimbursement of 
interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance Corporation on 
obligations issued through 1994, as authorized, $2,565,000.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not to exceed 
$25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $61,000,000, including not 
to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided, That the Commission is authorized to charge reasonable fees 
to attendees of Commission sponsored educational events and symposia to 
cover the Commission's costs of providing those events and symposia, 
and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                     TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the fiscal year 1999 under this Act shall be available 
for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided for, of 
not to exceed 440 passenger motor vehicles, of which 437 shall be for 
replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the appropriations of the 
Department of Agriculture in this Act for research and service work 
authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 1954 (7 U.S.C. 
427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available for contracting in accordance with said Acts and 
chapter.
    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. New obligational authority provided for the following 
appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the 
contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit fly program, 
integrated systems acquisition project, and up to $2,000,000 for costs 
associated with collocating regional offices; Farm Service Agency, 
salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; and 
Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training program.
    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field 
automation and information management project; funds appropriated for 
rental payments; funds for the Native American Institutions Endowment 
Fund in the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service; and funds for the competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)), shall remain available until expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 
94-449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
commodities acquired by the Department in connection with Commodity 
Credit Corporation and section 32 price support operations may be used, 
as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide 
commodities to individuals in cases of hardship as determined by the 
Secretary of Agriculture.
    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 711. With the exception of grants awarded under the Small 
Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219 (15 
U.S.C. 638), none of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service that 
exceed 14 percent of total Federal funds provided under each award.
    Sec. 712. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all 
loan levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 713. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1999 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1999 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; and 
the rural economic development loans program account.
    Sec. 714. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1999 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 715. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between the Agricultural Marketing 
Service or the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a State 
or Cooperator to carry out agricultural marketing programs or to carry 
out programs to protect the Nation's animal and plant resources.
    Sec. 716. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5 percent of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank or to 
maintain any account or subaccount within the accounting records of the 
Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not specifically been 
authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to the 
Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural Telephone 
Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of current 
requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set forth for 
financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit Reform Act 
of 1990.
    Sec. 717. Hereafter, none of the funds made available to the 
Department of Agriculture may be used to provide assistance to, or to 
pay the salaries of personnel who carry out a market promotion/market 
access program pursuant to section 203 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 
1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623) that provides assistance to the United States Mink 
Export Development Council or any mink industry trade association.
    Sec. 718. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,350,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 719. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918 of Public Law 104-127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act.
    Sec. 720. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or 
otherwise make available to any non-Department of Agriculture employee 
questions or responses to questions that are a result of information 
requested for the appropriations hearing process.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board.
    Sec. 723. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates 
a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any project or activity for which funds have been denied 
or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes 
offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes 
any functions or activities presently performed by Federal employees; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding 
for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel 
by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 724. Hereafter, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
available to the Department of Agriculture may be used to administer 
the provision of contract payments to a producer under the Agricultural 
Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for contract acreage on 
which wild rice is planted unless the contract payment is reduced by an 
acre for each contract acre planted to wild rice.
    Sec. 725. The Federal facility located in Stuttgart, Arkansas, and 
known as the ``United States National Rice Germplasm Evaluation and 
Enhancement Center'', shall be known and designated as the ``Dale 
Bumpers National Rice Research Center'': Provided, That any reference 
in law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to such federal facility shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the ``Dale Bumpers National Rice Research Center''.
    Sec. 726. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Agriculture, subject to the reprogramming requirements established 
by this Act, may transfer up to $26,000,000 in discretionary funds made 
available by this Act among programs of the Department, not otherwise 
appropriated for a specific purpose or a specific location, for 
distribution to or for the benefit of the Lower Mississippi Delta 
Region, as defined in Public Law 100-460, prior to normal state or 
regional allocation of funds: Provided, That any funds made available 
through Chapter Four of Title III, Subtitle D of the Federal 
Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 may be included in any 
amount reprogrammed under this section if such funds are used for a 
purpose authorized by such Chapter.
    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out section 793 of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 728. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to enroll in excess of 140,000 acres in the fiscal year 1999 
wetlands reserve program as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3837.
    Sec. 729. Notwithstanding section 27(a) of the Food Stamp Act, the 
amount specified for allocation under such section for fiscal year 1999 
shall be $80,000,000.
    Sec. 730. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out a conservation farm option program, as 
authorized by section 335 of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 731. Public Law 102-237, Title X, Section 1013(a) and (b) (7 
U.S.C. 426 note) is amended by striking ``, to the extent 
practicable,'' in each instance in which it appears.
    Sec. 732. Funds made available for conservation operations by this 
or any other Act, including prior-year balances, shall be available for 
financial assistance and technical assistance for Franklin County, 
Mississippi, in the amounts earmarked in appropriations report 
language.
    Sec. 733. Notwithstanding section 381A of Public Law 104-127, the 
definitions of rural areas for certain business programs administered 
by the Rural Business-Cooperative Service and the community facilities 
programs administered by the Rural Housing Service shall be those 
provided for in statute and regulations prior to the enactment of 
Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 734. Section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926d) is amended by inserting ``25 percent 
in'' in lieu of ``equal'' in subsection (b), and by inserting 
``$25,000,000'' in lieu of ``$15,000,000'' in subsection (d).
    Sec. 735. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate, or to 
plan to close or relocate, the Food and Drug Administration Division of 
Drug Analysis in St. Louis, Missouri.
    Sec. 736. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to carry out any commodity purchase 
program which would prohibit participation by a farmer-owned 
cooperative.
    Sec. 737. None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act for any fiscal year may be used to carry out section 302(h) of the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(h)) unless the 
Secretary of Agriculture inspects and certifies agricultural processing 
equipment, and imposes a fee for the inspection and certification, in a 
manner that is similar to the inspection and certification of 
agricultural products under that section, as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided, That this provision shall not affect the authority 
of the Secretary to carry out the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 
et seq.), or the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq.).
    Sec. 738. (a) Amendment of the Arms Export Control Act.--Section 
102(b)(2)(D) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa-
1(b)(2)(D)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``, or''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
                    ``(iii) to any credit, credit guarantee, or other 
                financial assistance provided by the Department of 
                Agriculture for the purchase or other provision of food 
                or other agricultural commodities.''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to any 
credit, credit guarantee, or other financial assistance approved by the 
Department of Agriculture before, on, or after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Amounts made available by this section are designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided, That such amounts shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999''.
                                                       Calendar No. 409

105th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2159

                          [Report No. 105-212]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 11, 1998

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar