[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2522 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 530
106th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2522

  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for 
                            other purposes.


Rule___________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 9, 2000

   Mr. McConnell, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

               TITLE I--EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                export-import bank of the united states

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                         subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $768,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2004: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan 
guarantees, insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 
2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act or any prior Act appropriating funds for 
foreign operations, export financing, or related programs for tied-aid 
credits or grants may be used for any other purpose except through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated by this paragraph are made 
available notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of the Export Import Bank Act 
of 1945, in connection with the purchase or lease of any product by any 
East European country, any Baltic State or any agency or national 
thereof.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $25,000 
for official reception and representation expenses for members of the 
Board of Directors, $58,000,000: Provided, That necessary expenses 
(including special services performed on a contract or fee basis, but 
not including other personal services) in connection with the 
collection of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale 
of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by the Export-Import 
Bank in satisfaction of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, or the 
investigation or appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the 
legal or technical aspects of any transaction for which an application 
for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made, shall be 
considered nonadministrative expenses for the purposes of this heading: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 
of the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall 
remain in effect until October 1, 2001.

                overseas private investment corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for 
official reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed 
$35,000) shall not exceed $38,000,000: Provided further, That project-
specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect costs 
incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs associated with 
services provided to specific investors or potential investors pursuant 
to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be 
considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $24,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
noncredit account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 2001 and 2002: 
Provided further, That such sums shall remain available through fiscal 
year 2010 for the disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated 
in fiscal years 2001 and 2002: Provided further, That in addition, such 
sums as may be necessary for administrative expenses to carry out the 
credit program may be derived from amounts available for administrative 
expenses to carry out the credit and insurance programs in the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and merged with said 
account.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $46,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That the Trade and Development 
Agency may receive reimbursements from corporations and other entities 
for the costs of grants for feasibility studies and other project 
planning services, to be deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
account and to be available for obligation until September 30, 2002, 
for necessary expenses under this paragraph: Provided further, That 
such reimbursements shall not cover, or be allocated against, direct or 
indirect administrative costs of the agency.

                TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 2002, unless 
otherwise specified herein, as follows:

                  agency for international development

                         development assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106, and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, and title V of the International Security and Development 
Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533), $1,368,250,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, up to $14,400,000 may be made 
available for the African Development Foundation and shall be 
apportioned directly to that agency: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $425,000,000 shall 
be made available to carry out the provisions of section 104(b) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated balances from 
prior appropriations may be made available to any organization or 
program which, as determined by the President of the United States, 
supports or participates in the management of a program of coercive 
abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading may be used to pay for the 
performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to motivate 
or coerce any person to practice abortions; and that in order to reduce 
reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be available 
only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly 
or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range 
of family planning methods and services, and that any such voluntary 
family planning project shall meet the following requirements: (1) 
service providers or referral agents in the project shall not implement 
or be subject to quotas, or other numerical targets, of total number of 
births, number of family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a 
particular method of family planning (this provision shall not be 
construed to include the use of quantitative estimates or indicators 
for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the project shall not include 
payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or financial reward to: (A) 
an individual in exchange for becoming a family planning acceptor; or 
(B) program personnel for achieving a numerical target or quota of 
total number of births, number of family planning acceptors, or 
acceptors of a particular method of family planning; (3) the project 
shall not deny any right or benefit, including the right of access to 
participate in any program of general welfare or the right of access to 
health care, as a consequence of any individual's decision not to 
accept family planning services; (4) the project shall provide family 
planning acceptors comprehensible information on the health benefits 
and risks of the method chosen, including those conditions that might 
render the use of the method inadvisable and those adverse side effects 
known to be consequent to the use of the method; and (5) the project 
shall ensure that experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and 
medical procedures are provided only in the context of a scientific 
study in which participants are advised of potential risks and 
benefits; and, not less than 60 days after the date on which the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
determines that there has been a violation of the requirements 
contained in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this proviso, or a 
pattern or practice of violations of the requirements contained in 
paragraph (4) of this proviso, the Administrator shall submit to the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, a 
report containing a description of such violation and the corrective 
action taken by the Agency: Provided further, That in awarding grants 
for natural family planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of such 
applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to offer only natural 
family planning; and, additionally, all such applicants shall comply 
with the requirements of the previous proviso: Provided further, That 
for purposes of this or any other Act authorizing or appropriating 
funds for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs, 
the term ``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, 
shall not be construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local 
law, of information or counseling about all pregnancy options: Provided 
further, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any 
existing statutory prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, of 
the funds appropriated under this heading in this Act, and of the 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated under this 
heading, $2,500,000 may be transferred to ``International Organizations 
and Programs'' for a contribution to the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD): Provided further, That of the 
aggregate amount of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East 
European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, not less than $310,000,000 shall 
be made available for agriculture and rural development programs of 
which $30,000,000 shall be made available for plant biotechnology 
research and development: Provided further, That of amounts made 
available in the preceding proviso for plant biotechnology activities, 
$1,000,000 shall be made available for the University of Missouri 
International Laboratory for Tropical Agriculture Biotechnology, not 
less than $1,000,000 shall be made available for research and training 
foreign scientists at the University of California, Davis, and not less 
than $1,000,000 shall be made available to support a Center to Promote 
Biotechnology in International Agriculture at Tuskegee University: 
Provided further, That not less than $4,000,000 shall be made available 
for the International Fertilizer Development Center: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for any activity which is in contravention to the Convention 
on International Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna 
(CITES): Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading that are made available for assistance programs for displaced 
and orphaned children and victims of war, not to exceed $25,000, in 
addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, may be used to 
monitor and provide oversight of such programs: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading not less than $500,000 
shall be made available for support of the United States 
Telecommunications Training Institute: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $17,000,000 shall 
be made available for the American Schools and Hospitals Abroad 
program: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $2,000,000 shall be available to support an 
international media training center: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, and the heading ``Assistance for 
the Independent States'', up to $7,000,000 should be made available for 
Carelift International: Provided further, That, of the funds 
appropriated by this Act for the Microenterprise Initiative (including 
any local currencies made available for the purposes of the 
Initiative), not less than one-half should be made available for 
programs providing loans of less than $300 to very poor people, 
particularly women, or for institutional support of organizations 
primarily engaged in making such loans.

                             global health

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of Chapters 1 
and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global 
health and related activities, in addition to funds otherwise available 
for such purposes, $651,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than the amount of funds appropriated under the headings 
``Development Assistance'' and ``Child Survival and Disease Program 
Fund'', for programs for the prevention, treatment, and control of, and 
research on, infectious diseases in developing countries in fiscal year 
2000 shall be made available for such activities in fiscal year 2001, 
of which amount not less than $225,000,000 shall be made available for 
such programs for HIV/AIDS including not less than $15,000,000 which 
shall be made available to support the development of microbicides as a 
means for combating HIV/AIDS: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading for infectious diseases, not less than 
$41,000,000 should be made available for programs for the prevention, 
treatment, control of, and research on tuberculosis, and not less than 
$65,000,000 should be made available for programs for the prevention, 
treatment, and control of, and research on, malaria: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$50,000,000 shall be made available for a United States contribution to 
the Global Fund for Children's Vaccines.

                                 cyprus

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
shall be made available for Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, 
administrative support of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, 
and measures aimed at reunification of the island and designed to 
reduce tensions and promote peace and cooperation between the two 
communities on Cyprus.

                                lebanon

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
should be made available for Lebanon to be used, among other programs, 
for scholarships and direct support of the American educational 
institutions in Lebanon.

                                  iraq

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for programs benefitting the Iraqi people, of which not less 
than $15,000,000 shall be made available for food, medicine, and other 
humanitarian assistance (including related administrative, 
communications, logistical, and transportation costs) to be provided to 
the Iraqi people inside Iraq: Provided, That such assistance shall be 
provided through the Iraqi National Congress Support Foundation or the 
Iraqi National Congress: Provided further, That not less than 
$10,000,000 of the amounts made available for programs benefitting the 
Iraqi people shall be made available to the Iraqi National Congress 
Support Foundation or the Iraqi National Congress for the production 
and broadcasting inside Iraq of radio and satellite television 
programming: Provided further, That the President shall, not later than 
30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a plan (in classified or unclassified form) for the 
transfer to the Iraqi National Congress Support Foundation or the Iraqi 
National Congress of humanitarian assistance for the Iraqi people 
pursuant to this paragraph, and for the commencement of broadcasting 
operations by them pursuant to this paragraph.

                                 burma

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $6,500,000 shall 
be made available to support democracy activities in Burma, democracy 
and humanitarian activities along the Burma-Thailand border, and for 
Burmese student groups and other organizations located outside Burma: 
Provided, That funds made available for Burma-related activities under 
this heading may be made available notwithstanding any other provision 
of law: Provided further, That the provision of such funds shall be 
made available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                           conservation fund

    Of the funds made available under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $3,000,000 
shall be made available to support the preservation of habitats and 
related activities for endangered wildlife.

                  private and voluntary organizations

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 percent of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development may, on a case-by-case basis, 
waive the restriction contained in this paragraph, after taking into 
account the effectiveness of the overseas development activities of the 
organization, its level of volunteer support, its financial viability 
and stability, and the degree of its dependence for its financial 
support on the agency.
    Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under title II of 
this Act should be made available to private and voluntary 
organizations at a level which is at least equivalent to the level 
provided in fiscal year 1995.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $220,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

              development credit authority program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs, $4,000,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development''.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $44,489,000.

     operating expenses of the agency for international development

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$510,000,000.

 operating expenses of the agency for international development office 
                          of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, which sum 
shall be available for the Office of the Inspector General of the 
Agency for International Development.

                  Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,220,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $840,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within 30 days of the enactment of this Act or by October 31, 2000, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $695,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance shall be 
provided with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant 
economic reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in 
previous fiscal years, and of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be 
provided as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That 
for fiscal year 2001, up to the Egyptian pound equivalent of 
$50,000,000 generated from funds made available by this paragraph or 
generated from funds appropriated under this heading in prior 
appropriations Acts, may be made available to the United States 
pursuant to the United States-Egypt Economic, Technical and Related 
Assistance Agreements of 1978, for the following activities under such 
Agreements: up to the Egyptian pound equivalent of $35,000,000 may be 
made available for costs associated with the relocation of the American 
University in Cairo, and up to the Egyptian pound equivalent of 
$15,000,000 may be made available for projects and programs including 
establishment of an endowment, which promote the preservation and 
restoration of Egyptian antiquities, of which up to the Egyptian pound 
equivalent of $3,000,000 may be made available for the Theban Mapping 
Project: Provided further, That in exercising the authority to provide 
cash transfer assistance for Israel, the President shall ensure that 
the level of such assistance does not cause an adverse impact on the 
total level of nonmilitary exports from the United States to such 
country and that Israel enters into a side letter agreement at least 
equivalent to the fiscal year 1999 agreement: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $150,000,000 
shall be made available for assistance for Jordan: Provided further, 
That of funds made available under this heading not less than 
$2,000,000 shall be available to support the American Center for 
Oriental Research: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available 
for assistance for East Timor of which up to $1,000,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Operating 
Expenses of the Agency for International Development''.

          assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $635,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for assistance and for related programs for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading not less than $89,000,000 shall be made available 
for assistance for Montenegro: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading and the headings ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not to 
exceed $75,000,000 shall be made available for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$60,000,000 should be made available for Croatia: Provided, That the 
Secretary of State shall make funds for activities and projects in 
Croatia available only after certifying that the Government of Croatia 
is fulfilling its declared commitments: (1) to cooperate with the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia including providing 
documents; (2) to take immediate steps to end Croatian financial, 
political, security, and other support which has served to maintain 
separate Herceg Bosna institutions; (3) to establish a swift timetable 
and cooperate in support of the safe return of refugees; and (4) to 
accelerate political, media, electoral and anti-corruption reforms: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act on the progress achieved by the Government of Croatia in 
fulfilling pledges made to meet the preceding proviso.
    (c) None of the funds made available under this heading for Kosova 
shall be made available until the Secretary of State certifies that the 
resources obligated and expended by the United States in Kosova do not 
exceed 15 percent of the total resources obligated and expended by all 
donors: Provided, That none of the funds made available under this 
heading for Kosova shall be made available for large scale physical 
infrastructure reconstruction: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading for Kosova, not less than 50 percent shall 
be made available through non-government organizations.
    (d) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior 
appropriations Acts that are or have been made available for an 
Enterprise Fund may be deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing 
accounts prior to the Fund's disbursement of such funds for program 
purposes. The Fund may retain for such program purposes any interest 
earned on such deposits without returning such interest to the Treasury 
of the United States and without further appropriation by the Congress. 
Funds made available for Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the 
minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities.
    (e) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.
    (f) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for new housing construction or repair or reconstruction of 
existing housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless directly related to 
the efforts of United States troops to promote peace in said country.
    (g) With regard to funds appropriated under this heading for the 
economic revitalization program in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and local 
currencies generated by such funds (including the conversion of funds 
appropriated under this heading into currency used by Bosnia and 
Herzegovina as local currency and local currency returned or repaid 
under such program) the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans prior 
to the obligation and expenditure of funds for such purposes, and prior 
to the use of funds that have been returned or repaid to any lending 
facility or grantee.
    (h) The provisions of section 532 of this Act shall apply to funds 
made available under subsection (g) and to funds appropriated under 
this heading.
    (i) The President shall withhold funds appropriated under this 
heading made available for economic revitalization programs in Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, if he determines and certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not 
complied with article III of annex 1-A of the General Framework 
Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the withdrawal 
of foreign forces, and that intelligence cooperation on training, 
investigations, and related activities between Iranian officials and 
Bosnian officials has not been terminated.

                 assistance for the independent states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 
11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM 
Support Act, for assistance for the Independent States of the former 
Soviet Union and for related programs, $775,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That the provisions of 
such chapter shall apply to funds appropriated by this paragraph: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available for the Southern 
Caucasus region, notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds may 
be used for confidence-building measures and other activities in 
furtherance of the peaceful resolution of the regional conflicts, 
especially those in the vicinity of Abkhazia and Nagorno-Karabagh: 
Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading 
not less than $20,000,000 shall be made available solely for the 
Russian Far East, not less than $400,000 shall be made available to 
support the Cochran Fellowship Program in Russia, and not less than 
$250,000 shall be made available to support the Moscow School of 
Political Studies.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$175,000,000 should be made available for assistance for Ukraine: 
Provided, That of this amount, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for nuclear reactor safety initiatives, not less than 
$1,000,000 shall be made available to the University of Southern 
Alabama to study environmental causes of birth defects, and not less 
than $5,000,000 shall be made available for the Ukranian Land and 
Resource Management Center.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$94,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Georgia of which 
not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available to support Border 
Security Guard initiatives, and not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
available for development and training of municipal officials in water 
resource management, transportation and agribusiness.
    (d) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$89,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Armenia.
    (e) Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of Public 
        Law 104-201;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
        or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.
    (f) Of the funds made available under this heading for nuclear 
safety activities, not to exceed 7 percent of the funds provided for 
any single project may be used to pay for management costs incurred by 
a United States agency or national lab in administering said project.
    (g) Of the funds appropriated under title II of this Act not less 
than $12,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Mongolia of 
which not less than $6,000,000 should be made available from funds 
appropriated under this heading: Provided, That funds made available 
for assistance for Mongolia may be made available in accordance with 
the purposes and utilizing the authorities provided in chapter 11 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (h)(1) Of the funds appropriated under this heading that are 
allocated for assistance for the Government of the Russian Federation, 
50 percent shall be withheld from obligation until the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the Government of the Russian Federation has terminated 
implementation of arrangements to provide Iran with technical 
expertise, training, technology, or equipment necessary to develop a 
nuclear reactor, related nuclear research facilities or programs, or 
ballistic missile capability.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
            (A) assistance to combat infectious diseases; and
            (B) activities authorized under title V (Nonproliferation 
        and Disarmament Programs and Activities) of the FREEDOM Support 
        Act.
    (i) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for assistance for the Government of the Russian Federation 
until the Secretary of State certifies that: (a) the Government of the 
Russian Federation is fully cooperating with international efforts to 
investigate allegations of war crimes and atrocities in Chechnya; and, 
(b) the Government of the Russian Federation is providing full access 
to international non-government organizations providing humanitarian 
relief to refugees and internally displaced persons in Chechnya: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading for 
assistance for Russia, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made 
available to non-government organizations providing humanitarian relief 
in Chechnya and Ingushetia.

                           Independent Agency

                              peace corps

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $220,000,000, including the purchase of not 
to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $220,000,000.

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross, assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the International Organization for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $615,000,000, which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not more than $14,000,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading to support activities and programs conducted by the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees shall be made available 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That not less than $60,000,000 shall 
be made available for refugees from the former Soviet Union and Eastern 
Europe and other refugees resettling in Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 
2(c)(2) of the Act which would limit the amount of funds which could be 
appropriated for this purpose.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and 
related programs and activities, $215,000,000, to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support 
Act for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, the 
destruction of small arms, and related activities, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, including activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations, section 301 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a voluntary contribution to the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and a voluntary contribution 
to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO), and for 
a United States contribution to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban 
Treaty Preparatory Commission: Provided, That 20 days prior to the 
obligation of funds for use by the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty 
Preparatory Commission, the Secretary of State shall provide a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations describing the anticipated use of 
such funds: Provided further, That of this amount not to exceed 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be made available 
for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation and disarmament: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for the International Atomic Energy 
Agency only if the Secretary of State determines (and so reports to the 
Congress) that Israel is not being denied its right to participate in 
the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $40,000,000 should be made available 
for demining, clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available for demining and 
related activities, not to exceed $500,000, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, may be used for administrative 
expenses related to the operation and management of the demining 
program.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to international 
affairs technical assistance activities), $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be available nowithstanding any 
other provision of law.

                           debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan guarantees, as the President 
may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or otherwise made 
available for programs within the International Affairs Budget Function 
150, including the cost of selling, reducing, or canceling amounts owed 
to the United States as a result of concessional loans made to eligible 
countries, pursuant to parts IV and V of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, and of modifying concessional credit agreements with least 
developed countries, as authorized under section 411 of the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 
and concessional loans, guarantees and credit agreements, as authorized 
under section 572 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-461), 
$75,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of this 
amount, funds may be made available to carry out the provisions of part 
V of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or as a contribution to the 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Trust Fund administered by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development: Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading shall be 
available subject to authorization by the appropriate committees: 
Provided further, That any limitation of subsection (e) of section 411 
of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 shall 
not apply to funds appropriated hereunder or previously appropriated 
under this heading: Provided further, That the authority provided by 
section 572 of Public Law 100-461 may be exercised only with respect to 
countries that are eligible to borrow from the International 
Development Association, but not from the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-only'' 
countries.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $55,000,000: Provided, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and training may be 
provided under this heading may include civilians who are not members 
of a government whose participation would contribute to improved civil-
military relations, civilian control of the military, or respect for 
human rights: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading for grant financed military education and training for 
Indonesia and Guatemala may only be available for expanded 
international military education and training and funds made available 
for Guatemala may only be provided through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                   foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,519,000,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,980,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within 30 
days of the enactment of this Act or by October 31, 2000, whichever is 
later: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of 
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and 
the United States, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than 26.26 percent shall be available for the procurement in 
Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $75,000,000 shall be available for assistance 
for Jordan: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Tunisia: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2001, 
the President is authorized to, and shall, direct the draw-downs of 
defense articles from the stocks of the Department of Defense, defense 
services of the Department of Defense, and military education and 
training of an aggregate value of not less than $4,000,000 under the 
authority of this proviso for Tunisia for the purposes of part II of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and any amount so directed shall 
count toward meeting the earmark in the preceding proviso: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated by this paragraph, not less 
than $12,000,000 shall be made available for Georgia: Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2001, the President is authorized to, and 
shall, direct the draw-downs of defense articles from the stocks of the 
Department of Defense, defense services of the Department of Defense, 
and military education and training of an aggregate value of not less 
than $5,000,000 under the authority of this proviso for Georgia for the 
purposes of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and any 
amount so directed shall count toward meeting the earmark in the 
preceding proviso: Provided further, That pursuant to section 3(a)(2) 
of the Arms Export Control Act and section 505(a)(1)(B) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the United States consents to the transfer by 
Turkey to Georgia of defense articles sold by the United States to 
Turkey having an aggregate, current market value of not to exceed 
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this paragraph shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding 
any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act: Provided 
further, That funds made available under this paragraph shall be 
obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of 
title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a).
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: 
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 515 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance for 
Sudan and Liberia: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
for demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, and may include activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be available 
for assistance for Guatemala: Provided further, That only those 
countries for which assistance was justified for the ``Foreign Military 
Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 congressional 
presentation for security assistance programs may utilize funds made 
available under this heading for procurement of defense articles, 
defense services or design and construction services that are not sold 
by the United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for 
defense articles and services: Provided further, That not more than 
$33,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the United 
States, for the general costs of administering military assistance and 
sales: Provided further, That not more than $330,000,000 of funds 
realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during fiscal year 2001 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export 
Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded only through 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $85,000,000: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

               TITLE IV--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  funds appropriated to the president

                  international financial institutions

                      global environment facility

    For the United States contribution for the Global Environment 
Facility, $50,000,000, to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility, by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, to remain available until expended, for 
contributions previously due.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $750,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      contribution to the multilateral investment guarantee agency

    For payment to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $4,000,000, for the United States paid-in 
share of the increase in capital stock, to remain available until 
expended.

                     limitation on callable capital

    The United States Governor of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency may subscribe without fiscal year limitation for the callable 
capital portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an 
amount not to exceed $80,000,000.

       contribution to the inter-american investment corporation

    For payment to the Inter-American Investment Corporation, by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $10,000,000, for the United States share of 
the increase in subscriptions to capital stock, to remain available 
until expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended, $100,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $6,100,000, for the United States paid-in share of the 
increase in capital stock, to remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation for the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $95,983,000.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the African Development Fund, 
$72,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $35,779,000, for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, to 
remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $123,238,000.

                International Organizations and Programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $288,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That not less than $5,000,000 shall be 
made available to the World Food Program: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities 
(UNFPA): Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading that are made available to UNFPA shall be made available 
for activities in the People's Republic of China: Provided further, 
That with respect to any funds appropriated under this heading that are 
made available to UNFPA, UNFPA shall be required to maintain such funds 
in a separate account and not commingle them with any other funds: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available to the Korean Peninsula Energy 
Development Organization (KEDO) or the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA).

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

             obligations during last month of availability

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 percent of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.

     prohibition of bilateral funding for international financial 
                              institutions

    Sec. 502. Notwithstanding section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, none of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be 
used to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
by title II of this Act may be transferred by the Agency for 
International Development directly to an international financial 
institution (as defined in section 533 of this Act) for the purpose of 
repaying a foreign country's loan obligations to such institution.

                    limitation on residence expenses

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

                         limitation on expenses

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal 
year.

               limitation on representational allowances

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned 
foreign currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available by this Act for general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available 
for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of 
$4,000 shall be available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade 
and Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances

                 prohibition on financing nuclear goods

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'') pursuant to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, except for purposes of nuclear 
safety, to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or 
technology.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, 
North Korea, Iran, Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall include 
direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-Import 
Bank or its agents.

                             military coups

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance to any country whose duly elected head 
of government is deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That 
assistance may be resumed to such country if the President determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the 
termination of assistance a democratically elected government has taken 
office.

                       transfers between accounts

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in this 
Act, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.

                  deobligation/reobligation authority

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under title II of this Act are, if deobligated, hereby 
continued available for the same period as the respective 
appropriations under such headings or until September 30, 2001, 
whichever is later, and for the same general purpose, and for countries 
within the same region as originally obligated: Provided, That the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of the Congress are notified 
15 days in advance of the reobligation of such funds in accordance with 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 
23 of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under 
this Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be 
used in fiscal year 2001.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1, 8, and 11 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, and funds provided under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', shall remain available until 
expended if such funds are initially obligated before the expiration of 
their respective periods of availability contained in this Act: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, any funds made available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I 
and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which 
are allocated or obligated for cash disbursements in order to address 
balance of payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the report required by 
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate 
for each country, to the extent known at the time of submission of such 
report, those funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of 
payment and economic policy reform purposes.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any government which is in default 
during a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United 
States of principal or interest on any loan made to such government by 
the United States pursuant to a program for which funds are 
appropriated under this Act: Provided, That this section and section 
620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds 
made available for any narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, 
Bolivia, and Peru authorized by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or 
the Arms Export Control Act.

                           commerce and trade

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the 
commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the 
resulting productive capacity is expected to become operative and if 
the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers 
of the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the 
judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and 
employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity, 
and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact in the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        American producers.

                          surplus commodities

    Sec. 514. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the International Development Association, the 
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the North American Development Bank, 
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
Development Bank, and the African Development Fund to use the voice and 
vote of the United States to oppose any assistance by these 
institutions, using funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, for the production or extraction of any commodity or mineral 
for export, if it is in surplus on world markets and if the assistance 
will cause substantial injury to United States producers of the same, 
similar, or competing commodity.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 515. (a) For the purposes of providing the executive branch 
with the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Development Assistance'', ``Global 
Health'', ``International Organizations and Programs'', ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', 
``Assistance for the Independent States'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development'', ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development Office of Inspector General'', 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``International Military 
Education and Training'', ``Peace Corps'', and ``Migration and Refugee 
Assistance'', shall be available for obligation for activities, 
programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, countries, or other 
operations not justified or in excess of the amount justified to the 
Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of these specific 
headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are previously notified 15 days in advance: Provided, That the 
President shall not enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for 
the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the 
provision of major defense equipment, other than conventional 
ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be aircraft, ships, 
missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified to Congress or 
20 percent in excess of the quantities justified to Congress unless the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
commitment: Provided further, That this section shall not apply to any 
reprogramming for an activity, program, or project under chapter 1 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of less than 10 percent of 
the amount previously justified to the Congress for obligation for such 
activity, program, or project for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the requirements of this section or any similar provision 
of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act requiring 
notification in accordance with the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if failure to do so 
would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided 
further, That in case of any such waiver, notification to the Congress, 
or the appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided as early 
as practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after taking the 
action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (b) Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 516. Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

             independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 517. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for the Independent States'' shall be made available for 
assistance for a government of an Independent State of the former 
Soviet Union--
            (1) unless that government is making progress in 
        implementing comprehensive economic reforms based on market 
        principles, private ownership, respect for commercial 
        contracts, and equitable treatment of foreign private 
        investment; and
            (2) if that government applies or transfers United States 
        assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
        seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or 
        ventures.
Assistance may be furnished without regard to this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the Independent States'' shall be made available for assistance for 
a government of an Independent State of the former Soviet Union if that 
government directs any action in violation of the territorial integrity 
or national sovereignty of any other Independent State of the former 
Soviet Union, such as those violations included in the Helsinki Final 
Act: Provided, That such funds may be made available without regard to 
the restriction in this subsection if the President determines that to 
do so is in the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the Independent States'' shall be made available for any state to 
enhance its military capability: Provided, That this restriction does 
not apply to demilitarization, demining or nonproliferation programs.
    (d) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for the 
Independent States'' shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Funds made available in this Act for assistance for the 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f) Funds appropriated in this or prior appropriations Acts that 
are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund in the 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union may be deposited by such 
Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such 
funds by the Fund for program purposes. The Fund may retain for such 
program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without returning 
such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without further 
appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for Enterprise 
Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for projects and activities.
    (g) In issuing new task orders, entering into contracts, or making 
grants, with funds appropriated in this Act or prior appropriations 
Acts under the heading ``Assistance for the Independent States'' and 
under comparable headings in prior appropriations Acts, for projects or 
activities that have as one of their primary purposes the fostering of 
private sector development, the Coordinator for United States 
Assistance to the New Independent States and the implementing agency 
shall encourage the participation of and give significant weight to 
contractors and grantees who propose investing a significant amount of 
their own resources (including volunteer services and in-kind 
contributions) in such projects and activities.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to lobby for or against 
abortion.

                 export financing transfer authorities

    Sec. 519. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation other than 
for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 2001, for 
programs under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs, and 
activities for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, 
but no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, 
shall be increased by more than 25 percent by any such transfer: 
Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                   special notification requirements

    Sec. 520. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, Haiti, Liberia, Pakistan, Panama, 
Serbia, Sudan, or the Democratic Republic of Congo except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 521. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all appropriations and authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as: (1) 
justified to the Congress; or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

               child survival, aids, and other activities

    Sec. 522. Up to $10,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for health, family planning, child survival, 
environment, basic education, and AIDS, may be used to reimburse United 
States Government agencies, agencies of State governments, institutions 
of higher learning, and private and voluntary organizations for the 
full cost of individuals (including for the personal services of such 
individuals) detailed or assigned to, or contracted by, as the case may 
be, the Agency for International Development for the purpose of 
carrying out child survival, basic education, and infectious disease 
activities: Provided, That up to $1,500,000 of the funds made available 
by this Act for assistance under the heading ``Development Assistance'' 
may be used to reimburse such agencies, institutions, and organizations 
for such costs of such individuals carrying out other development 
assistance activities: Provided further, That funds appropriated by 
this Act that are made available for child survival activities or 
disease programs including activities relating to research on, and the 
prevention, treatment and control of, Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome may be made available notwithstanding any provision of law 
that restricts assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated by this Act that are made available for family 
planning activities may be made available notwithstanding section 512 
of this Act and section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

       prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Iran, Syria, North 
Korea, or the People's Republic of China, unless the President of the 
United States certifies that the withholding of these funds is contrary 
to the national interest of the United States.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 524. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as are 
other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of that section: Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such 
Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of 
such defense articles.

                       authorization requirement

    Sec. 525. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

                           democracy in china

    Sec. 526. Notwithstanding any other provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries, funds appropriated by this Act for 
``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available to provide general 
support and grants for nongovernmental organizations located outside 
the People's Republic of China that have as their primary purpose 
fostering democracy in that country, and for activities of 
nongovernmental organizations located outside the People's Republic of 
China to foster rule of law and democracy in that country: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available for activities to foster 
democracy in the People's Republic of China may be made available for 
assistance to the government of that country, except that funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' 
that are made available for the National Endowment for Democracy or its 
grantees may be made available for activities to foster democracy in 
that country notwithstanding this proviso and any other provision of 
law: Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to the 
authority of this section shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

       prohibition on bilateral assistance to terrorist countries

    Sec. 527. (a) Funds appropriated for bilateral assistance under any 
heading of this Act and funds appropriated under any such heading in a 
provision of law enacted prior to the enactment of this Act, shall not 
be made available to any country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
        group which has committed an act of international terrorism; or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to a 
country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the 
waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in accordance 
with the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 528. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt and NATO 
and major non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing (including 
leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from United 
States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment 
(other than helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
civilian application), if the President determines that there are 
compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for those 
defense articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by 
government-to-government sale under such Act.

                         competitive insurance

    Sec. 529. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, 
shall include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies 
have a fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is 
necessary or appropriate.

                  stingers in the persian gulf region

    Sec. 530. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms 
Export Control Act or chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 531. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under title II of this Act and any interest earned on such investment 
shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance was provided to 
that organization.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 532. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation 
of local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency 
for International Development shall--
            (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
        separate account established by that government;
            (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
        forth--
                    (i) the amount of the local currencies to be 
                generated; and
                    (ii) the terms and conditions under which the 
                currencies so deposited may be utilized, consistent 
                with this section; and
            (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
        responsibilities of the Agency for International Development 
        and that government to monitor and account for deposits into 
        and disbursements from the separate account.
    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local 
currencies, shall be used only--
            (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
        part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                    (i) project and sector assistance activities; or
                    (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
            (B) for the administrative requirements of the United 
        States Government.
    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the 
equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2)(A) from the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 
of part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
which remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Reporting Requirement.--The Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall report on an annual basis as part of 
the justification documents submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the use of local currencies for the administrative 
requirements of the United States Government as authorized in 
subsection (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used and/or to be used 
for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is 
made available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 
or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such funds in a 
separate account and not commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the 
Committee of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House 
Report No. 98-1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any such 
cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed 
description of how the funds proposed to be made available will be 
used, with a discussion of the United States interests that will be 
served by the assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of 
the economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

  compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 533. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, 
or while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, the North 
American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.

         compliance with united nations sanctions against iraq

    Sec. 534. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act to carry out the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part I, relating to the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms Export Control Act 
may be used to provide assistance to any country that is not in 
compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions against 
Iraq unless the President determines and so certifies to the Congress 
that--
            (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the 
        United States;
            (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people 
        in that country; or
            (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
        assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.

 authorities for the peace corps, international fund for agricultural 
            development, and african development foundation

    Sec. 535. (a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act or the 
African Development Foundation Act. The agency shall promptly report to 
the Committees on Appropriations whenever it is conducting activities 
or is proposing to conduct activities in a country for which assistance 
is prohibited.
    (b) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, limitations on the 
availability of funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this or any other Act, including prior appropriations Acts, shall 
not be construed to be applicable to the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 536. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
            (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or 
        developing in a foreign country any export processing zone or 
        designated area in which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, 
        and safety laws of that country do not apply, in part or in 
        whole, to activities carried out within that zone or area, 
        unless the President determines and certifies that such 
        assistance is not likely to cause a loss of jobs within the 
        United States; or
            (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes 
        to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, 
        as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of 
        workers in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That in recognition that the 
        application of this subsection should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, the 
        provisions of this subsection shall not preclude assistance for 
        the informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture.

                     funding prohibition for serbia

    Sec. 537. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available for assistance for the Republic of Serbia: Provided, That 
this restriction shall not apply to assistance for Kosova or 
Montenegro, or to assistance to promote democratization: Provided 
further, That section 620(t) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, shall not apply to Kosova or Montenegro.

                          special authorities

    Sec. 538. (a) Funds appropriated in titles I and II of this Act 
that are made available for Afghanistan, Lebanon, Montenegro, and for 
victims of war, displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian 
assistance for Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of 
Kosova, may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law: Provided, That any such funds that are made available for Cambodia 
shall be subject to the provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 and section 906 of the International Security 
and Development Cooperation Act of 1985.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation activities 
and, subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations, energy programs aimed at reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions: Provided, That such assistance shall be subject to sections 
116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) The Agency for International Development may employ personal 
services contractors, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of administering programs for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (d)(1) Waiver.--The President may waive the provisions of section 
1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President determines and certifies in 
writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
President pro tempore of the Senate that it is important to the 
national security interests of the United States.
    (2) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
paragraph (1) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.

        policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 539. It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and 
        publicly renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel;
            (2) the decision by the Arab League in 1997 to reinstate 
        the boycott against Israel was deeply troubling and 
        disappointing;
            (3) the Arab League should immediately rescind its decision 
        on the boycott and its members should develop normal relations 
        with their neighbor Israel; and
            (4) the President should--
                    (A) take more concrete steps to encourage 
                vigorously Arab League countries to renounce publicly 
                the primary boycotts of Israel and the secondary and 
                tertiary boycotts of American firms that have 
                commercial relations with Israel as a confidence-
                building measure;
                    (B) take into consideration the participation of 
                any recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel 
                and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American 
                firms that have commercial relations with Israel when 
                determining whether to sell weapons to said country;
                    (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being 
                taken by the President to bring about a public 
                renunciation of the Arab primary boycott of Israel and 
                the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
                that have commercial relations with Israel and to 
                expand the process of normalizing ties between Arab 
                League countries and Israel; and
                    (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of 
                the United States to enact laws prohibiting businesses 
                from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
                businesses that do comply.

                       anti-narcotics activities

    Sec. 540. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act for ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided to 
strengthen the administration of justice in countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean and in other regions consistent with the provisions 
of section 534(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that 
programs to enhance protection of participants in judicial cases may be 
conducted notwithstanding section 660 of that Act. Section 534(c) and 
the second and third sentences of section 534(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 are repealed.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 541. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
and 11 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'': Provided, That the President 
shall take into consideration, in any case in which a restriction on 
assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, whether 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations is 
in the national interest of the United States: Provided further, That 
before using the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in 
support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the regular 
notification procedures of those committees, including a description of 
the program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the 
reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing 
in this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or involuntary sterilizations contained 
in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2001, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of such Act 
and made available pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or 
expended except as provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
        or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violates 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                                earmarks

    Sec. 542. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked 
may be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since the enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States, 
the President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other 
Act shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the 
Administrator of such agency determines and reports promptly to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a 
country or a significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that 
such earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.

                         ceilings and earmarks

    Sec. 543. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so 
directs. Earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any 
other Act shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 544. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act by the 
Congress: Provided, That not to exceed $750,000 may be made available 
to carry out the provisions of section 316 of Public Law 96-533.

            purchase of american-made equipment and products

    Sec. 545. (a) To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided 
under this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.
    (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, all agriculture commodities, equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-
made.
    (c) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (b) by the Congress.
    (d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress annually 
on the efforts of the heads of each Federal agency and the United 
States directors of international financial institutions (as referenced 
in section 514) in complying with this sense of the Congress.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 546. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the costs for participation of another country's delegation at 
international conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or 
international organizations.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 547. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing 
law.

             private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 548. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for 
International Development.

  prohibition on assistance to foreign governments that export lethal 
   military equipment to countries supporting international terrorism

    Sec. 549. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal 
military equipment provided under a contract entered into after October 
1, 1997.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of 
the United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.

 withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 550. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a 
foreign country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an 
amount equivalent to 110 percent of the total unpaid fully adjudicated 
parking fines and penalties owed to the District of Columbia by such 
country as of the date of the enactment of this Act shall be withheld 
from obligation for such country until the Secretary of State certifies 
and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that 
such fines and penalties are fully paid to the government of the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    limitation on assistance for the plo for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 551. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 604(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 
(title VI of Public Law 104-107) or any other legislation to suspend or 
make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the President 
fails to make the certification under section 604(b)(2) of the Middle 
East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or to suspend the prohibition under 
other legislation, funds appropriated by this Act may not be obligated 
for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for the West 
Bank and Gaza.

                     war crimes tribunals drawdown

    Sec. 552. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the President may direct a drawdown 
pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the 
United Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the 
former Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish to deal with such 
violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination required under 
this section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise required 
under section 552(c): Provided further, That 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until 
September 30, 2001, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations describing the steps the United States 
Government is taking to collect information regarding allegations of 
genocide or other violations of international law in the former 
Yugoslavia and to furnish that information to the United Nations War 
Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia: Provided further, That the 
drawdown made under this section for any tribunal shall not be 
construed as an endorsement or precedent for the establishment of any 
standing or permanent international criminal tribunal or court: 
Provided further, That funds made available for tribunals other than 
Yugoslavia or Rwanda shall be made available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                               landmines

    Sec. 553. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, demining 
equipment available to the Agency for International Development and the 
Department of State and used in support of the clearance of landmines 
and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on 
a grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and 
conditions as the President may prescribe.

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 554. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office 
of any department or agency of the United States Government for the 
purpose of conducting official United States Government business with 
the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration 
of Principles: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
employees of the United States and officials of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for 
in the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of 
conducting official United States Government business with such 
authority should continue to take place in locations other than 
Jerusalem. As has been true in the past, officers and employees of the 
United States Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other 
subjects with Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in 
the Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

               prohibition of payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 555. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the headings ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities or under the headings ``Global 
Health'', ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support Fund'' may 
be obligated or expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
        fees at sporting events and amusement parks.

           competitive pricing for sales of defense articles

    Sec. 556. Direct costs associated with meeting a foreign customer's 
additional or unique requirements will continue to be allowable under 
contracts under section 22(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. Loadings 
applicable to such direct costs shall be permitted at the same rates 
applicable to procurement of like items purchased by the Department of 
Defense for its own use.

                  special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 557. (a) Authority To Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms 
        Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation, to pay 
        for purchases of United States agricultural commodities 
        guaranteed by the Commodity Credit Corporation under export 
        credit guarantee programs authorized pursuant to section 5(f) 
        of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act of June 29, 
        1948, as amended, section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act of 
        1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or section 202 of the 
        Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (Public Law 95-501).
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt relief 
        and referendum agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club 
        Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided 
        in advance by appropriations Acts.
            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy debt 
        burdens that are eligible to borrow from the International 
        Development Association, but not from the International Bank 
        for Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as 
        ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
        control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security forces) does 
        not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt Restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for 
purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The 
authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding 
section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 321 of 
the International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975.

             authority to engage in debt buybacks or sales

    Sec. 558. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or 
Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain loans.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may, 
        in accordance with this section, sell to any eligible purchaser 
        any concessional loan or portion thereof made before January 1, 
        1995, pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to the 
        government of any eligible country as defined in section 702(6) 
        of that Act or on receipt of payment from an eligible 
        purchaser, reduce or cancel such loan or portion thereof, only 
        for the purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
                swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country of its 
                own qualified debt, only if the eligible country uses 
                an additional amount of the local currency of the 
                eligible country, equal to not less than 40 percent of 
                the price paid for such debt by such eligible country, 
                or the difference between the price paid for such debt 
                and the face value of such debt, to support activities 
                that link conservation and sustainable use of natural 
                resources with local community development, and child 
                survival and other child development, in a manner 
                consistent with sections 707 through 710 of the Foreign 
                Assistance Act of 1961, if the sale, reduction, or 
                cancellation would not contravene any term or condition 
                of any prior agreement relating to such loan.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President shall, in accordance with this 
        section, establish the terms and conditions under which loans 
        may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in section 
        702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall notify the 
        administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of 
        purchasers that the President has determined to be eligible, 
        and shall direct such agency to carry out the sale, reduction, 
        or cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section. Such agency 
        shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the sale, 
        reduction, or cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection shall 
        be available only to the extent that appropriations for the 
        cost of the modification, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance.
    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or 
cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or 
accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the 
President for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, 
of any loan made to an eligible country, the President should consult 
with the country concerning the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or 
canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt Restructuring''.

                          assistance for haiti

    Sec. 559. None of the funds made available by this or any previous 
appropriations Act for foreign operations, export financing and related 
programs shall be made available to the Government of Haiti until the 
Secretary of State reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
Haiti has held free and fair elections to seat a new parliament.

  requirement for disclosure of foreign aid in report of secretary of 
                                 state

    Sec. 560. (a) Foreign Aid Reporting Requirement.--In addition to 
the voting practices of a foreign country, the report required to be 
submitted to Congress under section 406(a) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, fiscal years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2414a), shall 
include a side-by-side comparison of individual countries' overall 
support for the United States at the United Nations and the amount of 
United States assistance provided to such country in fiscal year 1999.
    (b) United States Assistance.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``United States assistance'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 481(e)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2291(e)(4)).

   restrictions on voluntary contributions to united nations agencies

    Sec. 561. (a) Prohibition on Voluntary Contributions for the United 
Nations.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available to pay any voluntary contribution of the United States to the 
United Nations (including the United Nations Development Program) if 
the United Nations implements or imposes any taxation on any United 
States persons.
    (b) Certification Required for Disbursement of Funds.--None of the 
funds appropriated by this Act may be made available to pay any 
voluntary contribution of the United States to the United Nations 
(including the United Nations Development Program) unless the President 
certifies to the Congress 15 days in advance of such payment that the 
United Nations is not engaged in any effort to implement or impose any 
taxation on United States persons in order to raise revenue for the 
United Nations or any of its specialized agencies.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section the term ``United States 
person'' refers to--
            (1) a natural person who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or
            (2) a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity 
        organized under the United States or any State, territory, 
        possession, or district of the United States.

                 haiti national police and coast guard

    Sec. 562. The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase 
defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the civilian-led Haitian National Police and 
Coast Guard: Provided, That the authority provided by this section 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

         limitation on assistance to the palestinian authority

    Sec. 563. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or expended with 
respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate that 
waiving such prohibition is important to the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.

              limitation on assistance to security forces

    Sec. 564. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
provided to any unit of the security forces of a foreign country if the 
Secretary of State has credible evidence that such unit has committed 
gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of such 
country is taking effective measures to bring the responsible members 
of the security forces unit to justice: Provided, That nothing in this 
section shall be construed to withhold funds made available by this Act 
from any unit of the security forces of a foreign country not credibly 
alleged to be involved in gross violations of human rights: Provided 
further, That in the event that funds are withheld from any unit 
pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State shall promptly inform 
the foreign government of the basis for such action and shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, assist the foreign government in taking 
effective measures to bring the responsible members of the security 
forces to justice.

restrictions on assistance to countries providing sanctuary to indicted 
                             war criminals

    Sec. 565. (a) Bilateral Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by this or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing and related programs, may be provided for 
any country, entity or municipality described in subsection (e).
    (b) Multilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive directors of the 
        international financial institutions to work in opposition to, 
        and vote against, any extension by such institutions of any 
        financial or technical assistance or grants of any kind to any 
        country or entity described in subsection (e).
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days before any vote in 
        an international financial institution regarding the extension 
        of financial or technical assistance or grants to any country 
        or entity described in subsection (e), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
        provide to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a written 
        justification for the proposed assistance, including an 
        explanation of the United States position regarding any such 
        vote, as well as a description of the location of the proposed 
        assistance by municipality, its purpose, and its intended 
        beneficiaries.
            (3) Definition.--The term ``international financial 
        institution'' includes the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International 
        Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guaranty 
        Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), subsections (a) 
        and (b) shall not apply to the provision of--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) democratization assistance;
                    (C) assistance for cross border physical 
                infrastructure projects involving activities in both a 
                sanctioned country, entity, or municipality and a 
                nonsanctioned contiguous country, entity, or 
                municipality, if the project is primarily located in 
                and primarily benefits the nonsanctioned country, 
                entity, or municipality and if the portion of the 
                project located in the sanctioned country, entity, or 
                municipality is necessary only to complete the project;
                    (D) small-scale assistance projects or activities 
                requested by United States Armed Forces that promote 
                good relations between such forces and the officials 
                and citizens of the areas in the United States SFOR 
                sector of Bosnia;
                    (E) implementation of the Brcko Arbitral Decision;
                    (F) lending by the international financial 
                institutions to a country or entity to support common 
                monetary and fiscal policies at the national level as 
                contemplated by the Dayton Agreement;
                    (G) direct lending to a non-sanctioned entity, or 
                lending passed on by the national government to a non-
                sanctioned entity; or
                    (H) assistance to the International Police Task 
                Force for the training of a civilian police force.
                    (I) assistance to refugees and internally displaced 
                persons returning to their homes in Bosnia from which 
                they had been forced to leave on the basis of their 
                ethnicity.
             (2) Notification.--Every 60 days the Secretary of State, 
        in consultation with the Administrator of the Agency for 
        International Development, shall publish in the Federal 
        Register and/or in a comparable publicly accessible document or 
        Internet site, a listing and justification of any assistance 
        that is obligated within that period of time for any country, 
        entity, or municipality described in subsection (e), including 
        a description of the purpose of the assistance, project and its 
        location, by municipality.
    (d) Further Limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)--
            (1) no assistance may be made available by this Act, or any 
        prior Act making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
        financing and related programs, in any country, entity, or 
        municipality described in subsection (e), for a program, 
        project, or activity in which a publicly indicted war criminal 
        is known to have any financial or material interest; and
            (2) no assistance (other than emergency foods or medical 
        assistance or demining assistance) may be made available by 
        this Act, or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
        operations, export financing and related programs for any 
        program, project, or activity in any sanctioned country, 
        entity, or municipality described in subsection (e) in which a 
        person publicly indicted by the Tribunal is in residence or is 
        engaged in extended activity and competent local authorities 
        have failed to notify the Tribunal or failed to take necessary 
        and significant steps to apprehend and transfer such persons to 
        the Tribunal or in which competent local authorities have 
        obstructed the work of the Tribunal.
    (e) Sanctioned Country, Entity, or Municipality.--A sanctioned 
country, entity, or municipality described in this section is one whose 
competent authorities have failed, as determined by the Secretary of 
State, to take necessary and significant steps to apprehend and 
transfer to the Tribunal all persons who have been publicly indicted by 
the Tribunal.
    (f) Special Rule.--Subject to subsection (d), subsections (a) and 
(b) shall not apply to the provision of assistance to an entity that is 
not a sanctioned entity, notwithstanding that such entity may be within 
a sanctioned country, if the Secretary of State determines and so 
reports to the appropriate congressional committees that providing 
assistance to that entity would promote peace and internationally 
recognized human rights by encouraging that entity to cooperate fully 
with the Tribunal.
    (g) Current Record of War Criminals and Sanctioned Countries, 
Entities, and Municipalities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall establish and 
        maintain a current record of the location, including the 
        municipality, if known, of publicly indicted war criminals and 
        a current record of sanctioned countries, entities, and 
        municipalities.
            (2) Information of the dci and the secretary of defense.--
        The Director of Central Intelligence and the Secretary of 
        Defense should collect and provide to the Secretary of State 
        information concerning the location, including the 
        municipality, of publicly indicted war criminals.
            (3) Information of the tribunal.--The Secretary of State 
        shall request that the Tribunal and other international 
        organizations and governments provide the Secretary of State 
        information concerning the location, including the 
        municipality, of publicly indicted war criminals and concerning 
        country, entity and municipality authorities known to have 
        obstructed the work of the Tribunal.
            (4) Report.--Beginning 30 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and not later than September 1 each year 
        thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report in 
        classified and unclassified form to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the location, including the 
        municipality, if known, of publicly indicted war criminals, on 
        country, entity and municipality authorities known to have 
        obstructed the work of the Tribunal, and on sanctioned 
        countries, entities, and municipalities.
            (5) Information to congress.--Upon the request of the 
        chairman or ranking minority member of any of the appropriate 
        congressional committees, the Secretary of State shall make 
        available to that committee the information recorded under 
        paragraph (1) in a report submitted to the committee in 
        classified and unclassified form.
    (h) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
        application of subsection (a) or subsection (b) with respect to 
        specified bilateral programs or international financial 
        institution projects or programs in a sanctioned country, 
        entity, or municipality upon providing a written determination 
        to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
        Representatives that such assistance directly supports the 
        implementation of the Dayton Agreement and its Annexes, which 
        include the obligation to apprehend and transfer indicted war 
        criminals to the Tribunal.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the date of any 
        written determination under paragraph (1) the Secretary of 
        State shall submit a report to the Committee on Appropriations 
        and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on International 
        Relations of the House of Representatives regarding the status 
        of efforts to secure the voluntary surrender or apprehension 
        and transfer of persons indicted by the Tribunal, in accordance 
        with the Dayton Agreement, and outlining obstacles to achieving 
        this goal.
            (3) Assistance programs and projects affected.--Any waiver 
        made pursuant to this subsection shall be effective only with 
        respect to a specified bilateral program or multilateral 
        assistance project or program identified in the determination 
        of the Secretary of State to Congress.
    (i) Termination of Sanctions.--The sanctions imposed pursuant to 
subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a country or entity shall cease 
to apply only if the Secretary of State determines and certifies to 
Congress that the authorities of that country, entity, or municipality 
have apprehended and transferred to the Tribunal all persons who have 
been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (j) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) Country.--The term ``country'' means Bosnia-
        Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia.
            (2) Entity.--The term ``entity'' refers to the Federation 
        of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosova, Montenegro, and the 
        Republika Srpska.
            (3) Dayton agreement.--The term ``Dayton Agreement'' means 
        the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and 
        Herzegovina, together with annexes relating thereto, done at 
        Dayton, November 10 through 16, 1995.
            (4) Tribunal.--The term ``Tribunal'' means the 
        International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
    (k) Role of Human Rights Organizations and Government Agencies.--In 
carrying out this section, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development, and the executive directors 
of the international financial institutions shall consult with 
representatives of human rights organizations and all government 
agencies with relevant information to help prevent publicly indicted 
war criminals from benefiting from any financial or technical 
assistance or grants provided to any country or entity described in 
subsection (e).

    discrimination against minority religious faiths in the russian 
                               federation

    Sec. 566. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be made 
available for the Government of the Russian Federation, after 180 days 
from the date of the enactment of this Act, unless the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the 
Government of the Russian Federation has implemented no statute, 
executive order, regulation or similar government action that would 
discriminate, or would have as its principal effect discrimination, 
against religious groups or religious communities in the Russian 
Federation in violation of accepted international agreements on human 
rights and religious freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a 
party.

                        greenhouse gas emissions

    Sec. 567. (a) Funds made available in this Act to support programs 
or activities the primary purpose of which is promoting or assisting 
country participation in the Kyoto Protocol to the Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (FCCC) shall only be made available subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) The President shall provide a detailed account of all Federal 
agency obligations and expenditures for climate change programs and 
activities, domestic and international obligations for such activities 
in fiscal year 2001, and any plan for programs thereafter related to 
the implementation or the furtherance of protocols pursuant to, or 
related to negotiations to amend the FCCC in conjunction with the 
President's submission of the Budget of the United States Government 
for Fiscal Year 2002: Provided, That such report shall include an 
accounting of expenditures by agency with each agency identifying 
climate change activities and associated costs by line item as 
presented in the President's Budget Appendix: Provided further, That 
such report shall identify with regard to the Agency for International 
Development, obligations and expenditures by country or central program 
and activity.

       aid to the government of the democratic republic of congo

    Sec. 568. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be provided to the Central Government of the 
Democratic Republic of Congo.

                      enterprise fund restrictions

    Sec. 569. Prior to the distribution of any assets resulting from 
any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an Enterprise Fund, in 
whole or in part, the President shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.

                                cambodia

    Sec. 570. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the 
United States executive directors of the international financial 
institutions to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose 
loans to the Central Government of Cambodia, except loans to support 
basic human needs.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available for assistance for the Central Government of Cambodia.

                  foreign military expenditures report

    Sec. 571. (a) Section 511(b) of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 
102-391) is amended by repealing paragraph (2) relating to military 
expenditures.
    (b) Not later than February 15, 2001, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations which 
describes how the provisions of section 576 of the Foreign Operations, 
Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1997, as 
amended (Public Law 104-208), and of section 1502(b) of title XV of the 
International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262o) as amended, 
are being implemented. This report shall identify, among other things--
            (1) the countries found not to be in compliance with the 
        provisions of section 576 and the instances where the United 
        States Executive Director to an international financial 
        institution has voted to oppose a loan or other utilization of 
        funds as a result of the requirements of that section;
            (2) steps taken by the governments of countries receiving 
        loans or other funds from such institutions to establish the 
        reporting systems addressed in section 576;
            (3) any instances in which such governments have failed to 
        provide information about the governments' audit process 
        requested by an international financial institution; and
            (4) any policy changes that have been made by the 
        international financial institutions with regard to providing 
        loans or other funds to countries which expend a significant 
        portion of their financial resources for their armed forces and 
        security forces, and with regard to requiring, and providing 
        technical assistance for, audits of receipts and expenditures 
        of such armed forces and security forces.

            korean peninsula energy development organization

    Sec. 572. (a) Of the funds made available under the heading 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', 
not to exceed $35,000,000 may be made available for the Korean 
Peninsula Energy Development Organization (hereafter referred to in 
this section as ``KEDO''), notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
only for the administrative expenses and heavy fuel oil costs 
associated with the Agreed Framework.
    (b) Of the funds made available for KEDO, up to $15,000,000 may be 
made available prior to June 1, 2001, if, 30 days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that--
            (1) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to implement the Joint 
        Declaration on Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in 
        which the Government of North Korea has committed not to test, 
        manufacture, produce, receive, possess, store, deploy, or use 
        nuclear weapons, and not to possess nuclear reprocessing or 
        uranium enrichment facilities;
            (2) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to pursue the North-South 
        dialogue;
            (3) North Korea is complying with all provisions of the 
        Agreed Framework;
            (4) North Korea has not diverted assistance provided by the 
        United States for purposes for which it was not intended; and
            (5) North Korea is not seeking to develop or acquire the 
        capability to enrich uranium, or any additional capability to 
        reprocess spent nuclear fuel.
    (c) Of the funds made available for KEDO, up to $20,000,000 may be 
made available on or after June 1, 2001, if, 30 days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that--
            (1) the effort to can and safely store all spent fuel from 
        North Korea's graphite-moderated nuclear reactors has been 
        successfully concluded;
            (2) North Korea is complying with its obligations under the 
        agreement regarding access to suspect underground construction;
            (3) North Korea has terminated its nuclear weapons program, 
        including all efforts to acquire, develop, test, produce, or 
        deploy such weapons; and
            (4) the United States has made and is continuing to make 
        significant progress on eliminating the North Korean ballistic 
        missile threat, including further missile tests and its 
        ballistic missile exports.
    (d) The President may waive the certification requirements of 
subsections (b) and (c) if the President determines that it is vital to 
the national security interests of the United States and provides 
written policy justifications to the appropriate congressional 
committees prior to his exercise of such waiver. No funds may be 
obligated for KEDO until 30 days after submission to Congress of such 
waiver.
    (e) The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report (to be submitted with the annual 
presentation for appropriations) providing a full and detailed 
accounting of the fiscal year 2002 request for the United States 
contribution to KEDO, the expected operating budget of the KEDO, to 
include unpaid debt, proposed annual costs associated with heavy fuel 
oil purchases, and the amount of funds pledged by other donor nations 
and organizations to support KEDO activities on a per country basis, 
and other related activities.

                     african development foundation

    Sec. 573. Funds made available to grantees of the African 
Development Foundation may be invested pending expenditure for project 
purposes when authorized by the President of the Foundation: Provided, 
That interest earned shall be used only for the purposes for which the 
grant was made: Provided further, That this authority applies to 
interest earned both prior to and following enactment of this 
provision: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of 
the African Development Foundation Act, in exceptional circumstances 
the board of directors of the Foundation may waive the $250,000 
limitation contained in that section with respect to a project: 
Provided further, That the Foundation shall provide a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations in advance of exercising such waiver 
authority.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 574. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical 
support, consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

 voluntary separation incentives for employees of the u.s. agency for 
                       international development

    Sec. 575. (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' means the United States Agency for 
        International Development;
            (2) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator, 
        United States Agency for International Development; and
            (3) the term ``employee'' means an employee (as defined by 
        section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) who is employed by 
        the agency, is serving under an appointment without time 
        limitation, and has been currently employed for a continuous 
        period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
                    (A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of 
                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
                Code, or another retirement system for employees of the 
                agency;
                    (B) an employee having a disability on the basis of 
                which such employee is or would be eligible for 
                disability retirement under the applicable retirement 
                system referred to in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) an employee who is to be separated 
                involuntarily for misconduct or unacceptable 
                performance, and to whom specific notice has been given 
                with respect to that separation;
                    (D) an employee who has previously received any 
                voluntary separation incentive payment by the 
                Government of the United States under this section or 
                any other authority and has not repaid such payment;
                    (E) an employee covered by statutory reemployment 
                rights who is on transfer to another organization; or
                    (F) any employee who, during the 24-month period 
                preceding the date of separation, received a 
                recruitment or relocation bonus under section 5753 of 
                title 5, United States Code, or who, within the 12-
                month period preceding the date of separation, received 
                a retention allowance under section 5754 of such title 
                5.
    (b) Agency Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, before obligating any 
        resources for voluntary separation incentive payments under 
        this section, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
        and the Office of Management and Budget a strategic plan 
        outlining the intended use of such incentive payments and a 
        proposed organizational chart for the agency once such 
        incentive payments have been completed.
            (2) Contents.--The agency's plan shall include--
                    (A) the positions and functions to be reduced or 
                eliminated, identified by organizational unit, 
                geographic location, occupational category and grade 
                level;
                    (B) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered;
                    (C) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions; and
                    (D) the time period during which incentives may be 
                paid.
            (3) Approval.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget shall review the agency's plan and approve or disapprove 
        the plan and may make appropriate modifications in the plan 
        with respect to the coverage of incentives as described under 
        paragraph (2)(A), and with respect to the matters described in 
        paragraphs (2)(B) through (D).
    (c) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) In general.--A voluntary separation incentive payment 
        under this section may be paid by the agency to employees of 
        such agency and only to the extent necessary to eliminate the 
        positions and functions identified by the strategic plan.
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment under this section--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the 
                employee's separation;
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employees;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                            (i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 
                        section 5595(c) of title 5, United States Code, 
                        if the employee were entitled to payment under 
                        such section; or
                            (ii) an amount determined by the agency 
                        head not to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may not be made except in the case of any 
                employee who voluntarily separates (whether by 
                retirement or resignation) on or before December 31, 
                2001;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation.
    (d) Additional Agency Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
        chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall 
        remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the 
        Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil 
        Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 
        percent of the final basic pay of each employee of the agency 
        who is covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 
        of title 5, United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation 
        incentive has been paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term 
        ``final basic pay'', with respect to an employee, means the 
        total amount of basic pay which would be payable for a year of 
        service by such employee, computed using the employee's final 
        rate of basic pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-
        time basis, with appropriate adjustment therefor.
    (e) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--
            (1) An individual who has received a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section and accepts any employment 
        for compensation with the Government of the United States, or 
        who works for any agency of the Government of the United States 
        through a personal services contract, within 5 years after the 
        date of the separation on which the payment is based shall be 
        required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
        employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to the 
        agency that paid the incentive payment.
            (2) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with an 
        Executive agency (as defined by section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code), the United States Postal Service, or the Postal 
        Rate Commission, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, waive 
        the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique 
        abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the 
        position.
            (3) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with an entity 
        in the legislative branch, the head of the entity or the 
        appointing official may waive the repayment if the individual 
        involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified 
        applicant available for the position.
            (4) If the employment under paragraph (1) is with the 
        judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of 
        the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the 
        individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only 
        qualified applicant for the position.
    (f) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) In general.--The total number of funded employee 
        positions in the agency shall be reduced by one position for 
        each vacancy created by the separation of any employee who has 
        received, or is due to receive, a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section. For the purposes of this 
        subsection, positions shall be counted on a full-time-
        equivalent basis.
            (2) Enforcement.--The President, through the Office of 
        Management and Budget, shall monitor the agency and take any 
        action necessary to ensure that the requirements of this 
        subsection are met.
    (g) Regulations.--The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe 
such regulations as may be necessary to implement this section.

                             kyoto protocol

    Sec. 576. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, 
Japan, at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United States 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to 
the Senate for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article 
II, section 2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which 
has not entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.

additional requirements relating to stockpiling of defense articles for 
                           foreign countries

    Sec. 577. (a) Value of Additions to Stockpiles.--Section 
514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end, 
the following: ``and $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2001''.
    (b) Requirements Relating to the Republic of Korea and Thailand.--
Section 514(b)(2)(B) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(B)) is amended 
by inserting at the end thereof the following sentence: ``Of the amount 
specified in subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 2001, not more than 
$50,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in the Republic of 
Korea.''.

               abolition of the inter-american foundation

    Sec. 578. (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Management and Budget.
            (2) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the Inter-
        American Foundation.
            (3) Function.--The term ``function'' means any duty, 
        obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, 
        activity, or program.
    (b) Abolition of Inter-American Foundation.--During fiscal year 
2001, the President is authorized to abolish the Inter-American 
Foundation. The provisions of this section shall only be effective upon 
the effective date of the abolition of the Inter-American Foundation.
    (c) Termination of Functions.--
            (1) Except as provided in subsection (d)(2), there are 
        terminated upon the abolition of the Foundation all functions 
        vested in, or exercised by, the Foundation or any official 
        thereof, under any statute, reorganization plan, Executive 
        order, or other provisions of law, as of the day before the 
        effective date of this section.
            (2) Repeal.--Section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1969 (22 U.S.C. 290f) is repealed upon the effective date 
        specified in subsection (j).
            (3) Final disposition of funds.--Upon the date of 
        transmittal to Congress of the certification described in 
        subsection (d)(4), all unexpended balances of appropriations of 
        the Foundation shall be deposited in the miscellaneous receipts 
        account of the Treasury of the United States.
    (d) Responsibilities of the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget shall be responsible for--
                    (A) the administration and wind-up of any 
                outstanding obligation of the Federal Government under 
                any contract or agreement entered into by the 
                Foundation before the date of the enactment of the 
                Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
                Programs Appropriations Act, 2001, except that the 
                authority of this subparagraph does not include the 
                renewal or extension of any such contract or agreement; 
                and
                    (B) taking such other actions as may be necessary 
                to wind-up any outstanding affairs of the Foundation.
            (2) Transfer of functions to the director.--There are 
        transferred to the Director such functions of the Foundation 
        under any statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, or 
        other provision of law, as of the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this section, as may be necessary to carry out the 
        responsibilities of the Director under paragraph (1).
            (3) Authorities of the director.--For purposes of 
        performing the functions of the Director under paragraph (1) 
        and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Director 
        may--
                    (A) enter into contracts;
                    (B) employ experts and consultants in accordance 
                with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at 
                rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
                equivalent to the rate for level IV of the Executive 
                Schedule; and
                    (C) utilize, on a reimbursable basis, the services, 
                facilities, and personnel of other Federal agencies.
            (4) Certification required.--Whenever the Director 
        determines that the responsibilities described in paragraph (1) 
        have been fully discharged, the Director shall so certify to 
        the appropriate congressional committees.
    (e) Report to Congress.--The Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
detailed report in writing regarding all matters relating to the 
abolition and termination of the Foundation. The report shall be 
submitted not later than 90 days after the termination of the 
Foundation.
    (f) Transfer and Allocation of Appropriations.--Except as otherwise 
provided in this section, the assets, liabilities (including contingent 
liabilities arising from suits continued with a substitution or 
addition of parties under subsection (g)(3)), contracts, property, 
records, and unexpended balance of appropriations, authorizations, 
allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, 
available to, or to be made available in connection with the functions, 
terminated by subsection (c)(1) or transferred by subsection (d)(2) 
shall be transferred to the Director for purposes of carrying out the 
responsibilities described in subsection (d)(1).
    (g) Savings Provisions.--
            (1) Continuing legal force and effect.--All orders, 
        determinations, rules, regulations, permits, agreements, 
        grants, contracts, certificates, licenses, registrations, 
        privileges, and other administrative actions--
                    (A) that have been issued, made, granted, or 
                allowed to become effective by the Foundation in the 
                performance of functions that are terminated or 
                transferred under this section; and
                    (B) that are in effect as of the date of the 
                abolition of the Foundation, or were final before such 
                date and are to become effective on or after such date,
        shall continue in effect according to their terms until 
        modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in 
        accordance with law by the President, the Director, or other 
        authorized official, a court of competent jurisdiction, or by 
        operation of law.
            (2) No effect on judicial or administrative proceedings.--
        Except as otherwise provided in this section--
                    (A) the provisions of this section shall not affect 
                suits commenced prior to the date of the abolition of 
                the Foundation; and
                    (B) in all such suits, proceedings shall be had, 
                appeals taken, and judgments rendered in the same 
                manner and effect as if this section had not been 
                enacted.
            (3) Nonabatement of proceedings.--No suit, action, or other 
        proceeding commenced by or against any officer in the official 
        capacity of such individual as an officer of the Foundation 
        shall abate by reason of the enactment of this section. No 
        cause of action by or against the Foundation, or by or against 
        any officer thereof in the official capacity of such officer, 
        shall abate by reason of the enactment of this section.
            (4) Continuation of proceeding with substitution of 
        parties.--If, before the date of the abolition of the 
        Foundation, the Foundation, or officer thereof in the official 
        capacity of such officer, is a party to a suit, then effective 
        on such date such suit shall be continued with the Director 
        substituted or added as a party.
            (5) Reviewability of orders and actions under transferred 
        functions.--Orders and actions of the Director in the exercise 
        of functions terminated or transferred under this section shall 
        be subject to judicial review to the same extent and in the 
        same manner as if such orders and actions had been taken by the 
        Foundation immediately preceding their termination or transfer. 
        Any statutory requirements relating to notice, hearings, action 
        upon the record, or administrative review that apply to any 
        function transferred by this section shall apply to the 
        exercise of such function by the Director.
    (h) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) African development foundation.--Section 502 of the 
        International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 
        (22 U.S.C. 290h) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (2);
                    (B) by striking the semicolon at the end of 
                paragraph (3) and inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5).
            (2) Social progress trust fund agreement.--Section 36 of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``provide for'' and all 
                        that follows through ``(2) utilization'' and 
                        inserting ``provide for the utilization''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``member countries;'' and 
                        all that follows through ``paragraph (2)'' and 
                        inserting ``member countries.'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``transfer or'';
                    (C) by striking subsection (c);
                    (D) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (c); and
                    (E) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated), by 
                striking ``transfer or''.
            (3) Foreign assistance act of 1961.--Section 222A(d) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2182a(d)) is 
        repealed.
    (i) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means the Committee on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations of the 
House of Representatives.
    (j) Effective Dates.--The repeal made by subsection (c)(2) and the 
amendments made by subsection (h) shall take effect upon the date of 
transmittal to Congress of the certification described in subsection 
(d)(4).

                       west bank and gaza program

    Sec. 579. For fiscal year 2001, 30 days prior to the initial 
obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza Program, the 
Secretary of State shall certify to the appropriate committees of 
Congress that procedures have been established to assure the 
Comptroller General of the United States will have access to 
appropriate United States financial information in order to review the 
uses of United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.

                               indonesia

    Sec. 580. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``International Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'' may be made available to the Government of 
Indonesia if the President determines and submits a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Indonesia 
and the Indonesian Armed Forces are--
    (1) taking effective measures to bring to justice members of the 
armed forces and militia groups against whom there is credible evidence 
of human rights violations;
    (2) taking effective measures to bring to justice members of the 
armed forces against whom there is credible evidence of aiding or 
abetting militia groups;
    (3) allowing displaced persons and refugees to return home to East 
Timor, including providing safe passage for refugees returning from 
West Timor;
    (4) not impeding the activities of the United Nations Transitional 
Authority in East Timor;
    (5) demonstrating a commitment to preventing incursions into East 
Timor by members of militia groups in West Timor; and
    (6) demonstrating a commitment to accountability by cooperating 
with investigations and prosecutions of members of the Indonesian Armed 
Forces and militia groups responsible for human rights violations in 
Indonesia and East Timor.

                          working capital fund

    Sec. 581. (a) Section 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2395) is amended by adding a new subsection (l) as follows:
            ``(l)(1) There is hereby established a working capital fund 
        for the Agency for International Development which shall be 
        available without fiscal year limitation for the expenses of 
        personal and nonpersonal services, equipment and supplies for 
        International Cooperative Administrative Support Services.
            ``(2) The capital of the fund shall consist of the fair and 
        reasonable value of such supplies, equipment and other assets 
        pertaining to the functions of the fund as the Administrator 
        determines, rebates from the use of United States Government 
        credit cards, and any appropriations made available for the 
        purpose of providing capital, less related liabilities and 
        unpaid obligations.
            ``(3) The fund shall be reimbursed or credited with advance 
        payments for services, equipment or supplies provided from the 
        fund from applicable appropriations and funds of the agency, 
        other Federal agencies and other sources authorized by section 
        607 of this Act at rates that will recover total expenses of 
        operation, including accrual of annual leave and depreciation. 
        Receipts from the disposal of, or payments for the loss or 
        damage to, property held in the fund, rebates, reimbursements, 
        refunds and other credits applicable to the operation of the 
        fund may be deposited in the fund.
            ``(4) The agency shall transfer to the Treasury as 
        miscellaneous receipts as of the close of the fiscal year such 
        amounts which the Administrator determines to be in excess of 
        the needs of the fund.
            ``(5) The fund may be charged with the current value of 
        supplies and equipment returned to the working capital of the 
        fund by a post, activity or agency and the proceeds shall, if 
        otherwise authorized, be credited to current applicable 
        appropriations.''.

               immunity of federal republic of yugoslavia

    Sec. 582. (a) Subject to subsection (b), the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia shall be deemed to be a state sponsor of terrorism for the 
purposes of 28 U.S.C. 1605(a)(7).
    (b) This section shall not apply to Montenegro or Kosova.
    (c) This section shall become null and void when the President 
certifies in writing to the Congress that the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (other than Montenegro and Kosova) has completed a 
democratic reform process that results in a newly elected government 
that respects the rights of ethnic minorities, is committed to the rule 
of law and respects the sovereignty of its neighbor states.
    (d) The certification provided for in subsection (c) shall not 
affect the continuation of litigation commenced against the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia prior to its fulfillment of the conditions in 
subsection (c).

                 consultations on arms sales to taiwan

    Sec. 583. Consistent with the intent of Congress expressed in the 
enactment of section 3(b) of the Taiwan Relations Act, the Secretary of 
State shall consult with the appropriate committees and leadership of 
Congress to devise a mechanism to provide for congressional input prior 
to making any determination on the nature or quantity of defense 
articles and services to be made available to Taiwan.

                        sanctions against serbia

    Sec. 584. (a) Continuation of Executive Branch Sanctions.--The 
sanctions listed in subsection (b) shall remain in effect for fiscal 
year 2001, unless the President submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations and International Relations of the House of 
Representatives a certification described in subsection (c).
    (b) Applicable Sanctions.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of the international financial 
        institutions to work in opposition to, and vote against, any 
        extension by such institutions of any financial or technical 
        assistance or grants of any kind to the government of Serbia.
            (2) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Ambassador to the Organization for Security and 
        Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to block any consensus to allow 
        the participation of Serbia in the OSCE or any organization 
        affiliated with the OSCE.
            (3) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representative to the United Nations to vote against any 
        resolution in the United Nations Security Council to admit 
        Serbia to the United Nations or any organization affiliated 
        with the United Nations, to veto any resolution to allow Serbia 
        to assume the United Nations' membership of the former 
        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and to take action to 
        prevent Serbia from assuming the seat formerly occupied by the 
        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
            (4) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization to oppose the extension of the 
        Partnership for Peace program or any other organization 
        affiliated with NATO to Serbia.
            (5) The Secretary of State should instruct the United 
        States Representatives to the Southeast European Cooperative 
        Initiative (SECI) to oppose and to work to prevent the 
        extension of SECI membership to Serbia.
    (c) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a certification that--
            (1) the representatives of the successor states to the 
        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have successfully 
        negotiated the division of assets and liabilities and all other 
        succession issues following the dissolution of the Socialist 
        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
            (2) the Government of Serbia is fully complying with its 
        obligations as a signatory to the General Framework Agreement 
        for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
            (3) the Government of Serbia is fully cooperating with and 
        providing unrestricted access to the International Criminal 
        Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, including surrendering 
        persons indicted for war crimes who are within the jurisdiction 
        of the territory of Serbia, and with the investigations 
        concerning the commission of war crimes and crimes against 
        humanity in Kosova;
            (4) the Government of Serbia is implementing internal 
        democratic reforms; and
            (5) Serbian federal governmental officials, and 
        representatives of the ethnic Albanian community in Kosova have 
        agreed on, signed, and begun implementation of a negotiated 
        settlement on the future status of Kosova.
    (d) Statement of Policy.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States should not restore full diplomatic relations with Serbia 
until the President submits to the Committees on Appropriations and 
Foreign Relations in the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations 
and International Relations in the House of Representatives the 
certification described in subsection (c).
    (e) Exemption of Montenegro and Kosova.--The sanctions described in 
subsection (b) shall not apply to Montenegro or Kosova.
    (f) Definition.--The term ``international financial institution'' 
includes the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Multilateral 
Investment Guaranty Agency, and the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development.
    (g) Waiver Authority.--The President may waive the application in 
whole or in part, of any sanction described in subsection (b) if the 
President certifies to the Congress that the President has determined 
that the waiver is necessary to meet emergency humanitarian needs.

                         clean coal technology

    Sec. 585. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The United States is the world leader in the 
        development of environmental technologies, particularly clean 
        coal technology.
            (2) Severe pollution problems affecting people in 
        developing countries, and the serious health problems that 
        result from such pollution, can be effectively addressed 
        through the application of United States technology.
            (3) During the next century, developing countries, 
        particularly countries in Asia such as China and India, will 
        dramatically increase their consumption of electricity, and low 
        quality coal will be a major source of fuel for power 
        generation.
            (4) Without the use of modern clean coal technology, the 
        resultant pollution will cause enormous health and 
        environmental problems leading to diminished economic growth in 
        developing countries and, thus, diminished United States 
        exports to those growing markets.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
promote the export of United States clean coal technology. In 
furtherance of that policy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
the Treasury (acting through the United States executive directors to 
international financial institutions), the Secretary of Energy, and the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) should, as appropriate, vigorously promote the use of United 
States clean coal technology in environmental and energy infrastructure 
programs, projects and activities. Programs, projects and activities 
for which the use of such technology should be considered include 
reconstruction assistance for the Balkans, activities carried out by 
the Global Environment Facility, and activities funded from USAID's 
Development Credit Authority.

               repeal of unobligated balance restrictions

    Sec. 586. (a) The final proviso under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'' in Title VI of the Foreign Operations, 
Export Financing, and Related Programs as enacted into law by section 
1000(a)(2) of division B of Public Law 106-113 (113 STAT. 1501A-133), 
is repealed.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall be effective immediately upon the 
enactment of this Act.

repeal of requirement for annual gao report on the financial operations 
                   of the international monetary fund

    Sec. 587. Section 1706 of the International Financial Institutions 
Act (22 U.S.C. 262r-5) is repealed.

                      extension of gao authorities

    Sec. 588. The funds made available to the Comptroller General 
pursuant to Title I, Chapter 4 of Public Law 106-31 shall remain 
available until expended.

                         procurement authority

    Sec. 589. Funds appropriated by this or any prior Acts making 
appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs, that are provided to the National Endowment for Democracy 
shall be provided in a manner that is consistent with the last sentence 
of section 503(a) of the National Endowment for Democracy Act and 
Comptroller General Decisions No. B-203681 of June 6, 1985, and No. B-
248111 of September 9, 1992, and the National Endowment for Democracy 
shall be deemed ``the awarding agency'' for purposes of implementing 
Office of Management and Budget Circular A-122 as dated June 1, 1998, 
or any successor circular.

                   funding for private organizations

    Sec. 590. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
determining eligibility for assistance authorized under part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), foreign 
nongovernmental organizations and multilateral organizations--
            (1) shall not be subject to requirements related to the use 
        of non-United States Government funds for advocacy and lobbying 
        activities more restrictive than those that apply to United 
        States nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance under 
        part I of such Act; and
            (2) shall not be ineligible for such assistance solely on 
        the basis of health or medical services provided by such 
        organizations with non-United States Government funds if such 
        services do not violate the laws of the country in which they 
        are being provided and would not violate United States Federal 
        law if provided in the United States.

                        TITLE VI--PLAN COLOMBIA

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

                               CHAPTER 1

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                          Department of State

               assistance for counternarcotics activities

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to support Central and South America and 
Caribbean counternarcotics activities, $934,100,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $120,000,000 shall be made available 
for assistance for Bolivia, of which not less than $100,000,000 shall 
be made available for alternative development and other economic 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Ecuador, of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be 
made available for alternative development and other economic 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, up to $42,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
Peru: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $18,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for other countries in South and Central America and the 
Caribbean which are cooperating with United States counternarcotics 
objectives: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading not less than $110,000,000 shall be made available for the 
procurement, refurbishing, and support for UH-1H Huey II helicopters: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for administration of 
demobilizing and rehabilitating activities for child soldiers in 
Colombia: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes: Provided further, That section 482(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated under this 
heading: Provided further, That the Secretary of State, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the U.S. Agency 
for International Development, shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act and prior to the initial obligation of any funds appropriated 
under this heading, a report on the proposed uses of all funds under 
this heading on a country-by-country basis for each proposed program, 
project or activity: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be subject to notification: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount provided shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6101. Conditions on Assistance for Colombia. (a) Conditions.--
            (1) Certification required.--Assistance provided under this 
        heading may be made available for Colombia in fiscal years 2000 
        and 2001 only if the Secretary of State certifies to the 
        appropriate congressional committees prior to the initial 
        obligation of such assistance in each such fiscal year, that--
                    (A)(i) the President of Colombia has directed in 
                writing that Colombian Armed Forces personnel who are 
                credibly alleged to have committed gross violations of 
                human rights will be brought to justice in Colombia's 
                civilian courts, in accordance with the 1997 ruling of 
                Colombia's Constitutional court regarding civilian 
                court jurisdiction in human rights cases; and
                    (ii) the Commander General of the Colombian Armed 
                Forces is promptly suspending from duty any Colombian 
                Armed Forces personnel who are credibly alleged to have 
                committed gross violations of human rights or to have 
                aided or abetted paramilitary groups; and
                    (iii) the Colombian Armed Forces and its Commander 
                General are fully complying with (A)(i) and (ii); and
                    (B) the Colombian Armed Forces are cooperating 
                fully with civilian authorities in investigating, 
                prosecuting, and punishing in the civilian courts 
                Colombian Armed Forces personnel who are credibly 
                alleged to have committed gross violations of human 
                rights; and
                    (C) the Government of Colombia is vigorously 
                prosecuting in the civilian courts the leaders and 
                members of paramilitary groups and Colombian Armed 
                Forces personnel who are aiding or abetting these 
                groups.
            (2) Consultative process.--The Secretary of State shall 
        consult with internationally recognized human rights 
        organizations regarding the Government of Colombia's progress 
        in meeting the conditions contained in paragraph (1), prior to 
        issuing the certification required under paragraph (1).
            (3) Application of existing laws.--The same restrictions 
        contained in section 564 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000 
        (Public Law 106-113) and section 8098 of the Department of 
        Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79) shall 
        apply to the availability of funds under this heading.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Aiding or abetting.--The term ``aiding or abetting'' 
        means direct and indirect support to paramilitary groups, 
        including conspiracy to allow, facilitate, or promote the 
        activities of paramilitary groups.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Paramilitary groups.--The term ``paramilitary groups'' 
        means illegal self-defense groups and security cooperatives.
            (4) Assistance.--The term ``assistance'' means assistance 
        appropriated under this heading for fiscal years 2000 and 2001, 
        and provided under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 1004 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-
                510; relating to counter-drug assistance).
                    (B) Section 1033 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-
                85; relating to counter-drug assistance to Colombia and 
                Peru).
                    (C) Section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (Public Law 90-629); relating to credit sales.
                    (D) Section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to international 
                narcotics control).
                    (E) Section 506 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to emergency drawdown 
                authority).
    Sec. 6102. Regional Strategy. (a) Report Required.--Not later than 
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall 
submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on International Relations 
and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, a 
report on the current United States policy and strategy regarding 
United States counternarcotics assistance for Colombia and neighboring 
countries.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
            (1) The key objectives of the United States' 
        counternarcotics strategy in Colombia and neighboring countries 
        and a detailed description of benchmarks by which to measure 
        progress toward those objectives.
            (2) The actions required of the United States to support 
        and achieve these objectives, and a schedule and cost estimates 
        for implementing such actions.
            (3) The role of the United States in the efforts of the 
        Government of Colombia to deal with illegal drug production in 
        Colombia.
            (4) The role of the United States in the efforts of the 
        Government of Colombia to deal with the insurgency and 
        paramilitary forces in Colombia.
            (5) How the strategy with respect to Colombia relates to 
        and affects the United States' strategy in the neighboring 
        countries.
            (6) How the strategy with respect to Colombia relates to 
        and affects the United States' strategy for fulfilling global 
        counternarcotics goals.
            (7) A strategy and schedule for providing material, 
        technical, and logistical support to Colombia and neighboring 
        countries in order to defend the rule of law and to more 
        effectively impede the cultivation, production, transit, and 
        sale of illicit narcotics.
            (8) A schedule for making Forward Operating Locations (FOL) 
        fully operational, including cost estimates and a description 
        of the potential capabilities for each proposed location and an 
        explanation of how the FOL architecture fits into the overall 
        the Strategy.
    Sec. 6103. Sense of the Congress on Counter Narcotics Measures. It 
is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Government of Colombia should commit itself 
        immediately to the urgent development and application of 
        naturally occurring and ecologically sound methods for 
        eradicating illicit crops, which could reduce significantly the 
        loss of life in Colombia and the United States;
            (2) the effectiveness of United States counter narcotics 
        assistance to Colombia depends on the ability of law 
        enforcement officials of that country having unimpeded access 
        to all areas of the national territory of Colombia for the 
        purposes of carrying out the interdiction of illegal narcotics 
        and the eradication of illicit crops; and
            (3) the governments of countries receiving support under 
        this title should take effective steps to prevent the creation 
        of a safe haven for narcotics traffickers by ensuring that 
        narcotics traffickers indicted in the United States are 
        promptly arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced to the maximum 
        extent of the law and, upon the request of the United States 
        Government, extradited to the United States for trial for their 
        egregious offenses against the security and well-being of the 
        people of the United States.
    Sec. 6104. Report on Extradition of Narcotics Traffickers. (a) Not 
later than six months after the date of the enactment of this title, 
and every six months thereafter, during the period Plan Colombia 
resources are made available, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
International Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth--
            (1) a list of the persons whose extradition has been 
        requested from any country receiving counter narcotics 
        assistance from the United States, indicating those persons 
        who--
                    (A) have been surrendered to the custody of United 
                States authorities;
                    (B) have been detained by the authorities and who 
                are being processed for extradition;
                    (C) have been detained by the authorities and who 
                are not yet being processed for extradition; or
                    (D) are at large;
            (2) a determination whether authorities of each country 
        receiving counternarcotics assistance from the United States 
        are making good faith efforts to ensure the prompt extradition 
        of each of the persons sought by United States authorities; and
            (3) an analysis of--
                    (A) any legal obstacles in the laws of each country 
                receiving counternarcotics assistance from the United 
                States regarding prompt extradition of persons sought 
                by United States authorities; and
                    (B) the steps taken by authorities of the United 
                States and the authorities of each country receiving 
                counternarcotics assistance from the United States to 
                overcome such obstacles.
    Sec. 6105. None of the funds appropriated under this title may be 
used to support the aerial spraying of any herbicide, unless the 
Surgeon General of the United States determines and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that such herbicide is safe and 
nontoxic to human health, and the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency determines and reports to the appropriate 
congressional committees that such herbicide does not contaminate water 
or leach in soil.
    Sec. 6106. Limitations on Support for Plan Colombia and on the 
Assignment of United States Personnel in Colombia. (a) Limitation on 
Support for Plan Colombia.--Except for appropriations made by this Act 
and appropriations made by the Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 2001, for such purpose, none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by any Act (including unobligated balances of 
prior appropriations) shall be available for support of Plan Colombia 
unless and until--
            (1) the President submits a report to Congress requesting 
        the availability of such funds; and
            (2) Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the 
        request of the President under paragraph (1).
    (b) Limitation on Assignment of United States Personnel in 
Colombia.--
            (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), none 
        of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
        or any other Act (including unobligated balances of prior 
        appropriations) may be available for--
                    (A) the assignment of any United States military 
                personnel for temporary or permanent duty in Colombia 
                if that assignment would cause the number of United 
                States military personnel so assigned in Colombia to 
                exceed 250 (excluding military personnel assigned to 
                the United States diplomatic mission in Colombia); or
                    (B) the employment of any United States individual 
                civilian retained as a contractor in Colombia if that 
                employment would cause the total number of individual 
                civilian contractors employed in Colombia in support of 
                Plan Colombia who are funded by Federal funds to exceed 
                100.
            (2) Exception.--The limitation contained in paragraph (1) 
        shall not apply if--
                    (A) the President submits a report to Congress 
                requesting that the limitation not apply; and
                    (B) Congress enacts a joint resolution approving 
                the request of the President under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitation in subsection 
(b)(1) for a single period of up to 90 days in the event that the Armed 
Forces of the United States are involved in hostilities or that 
imminent involvement by the Armed Forces of the United States in 
hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances.
    (d) Monthly Reports.--Beginning within 90 days of the date of 
enactment of this joint resolution, and every 30 days thereafter, the 
President shall submit a report to Congress that shall include the 
aggregate number, locations, activities, and lengths of assignment for 
all temporary and permanent United States military personnel and 
individual civilians retained as contractors involved in the 
antinarcotics campaign in Colombia.
    (e) Congressional Priority Procedures.--
            (1) Joint resolutions defined.--
                    (A) For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the term 
                ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution 
                introduced not later than 10 days of the date on which 
                the report of the President under subsection (a)(1) is 
                received by Congress, the matter after the resolving 
                clause of which is as follows: ``That Congress approves 
                the request of the President for additional funds for 
                Plan Colombia contained in the report submitted by the 
                President under section 6106(a)(1) of the 2000 
                Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.''.
                    (B) For purposes of subsection (b)(2)(B), the term 
                ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution 
                introduced not later than 10 days of the date on which 
                the report of the President under subsection (a)(1) is 
                received by Congress, the matter after the resolving 
                clause of which is as follows: ``That Congress approves 
                the request of the President for exemption from the 
                limitation applicable to the assignment of personnel in 
                Colombia contained in the report submitted by the 
                President under section 6106(b)(2)(B) of the 2000 
                Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.''.
            (2) Procedures.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a 
        joint resolution described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B) shall 
        be considered in a House of Congress in accordance with the 
        procedures applicable to joint resolutions under paragraphs (3) 
        through (8) of section 8066(c) of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 1985 (as contained in Public Law 98-473; 98 
        Stat. 1936).
    (f) Plan Colombia Defined.--In this section, the term ``Plan 
Colombia'' means the plan of the Government of Colombia instituted by 
the administration of President Pastrana to combat drug production and 
trafficking, foster peace, increase the rule of law, improve human 
rights, expand economic development, and institute justice reform.

                               CHAPTER 2

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                  Agency for International Development

                   international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$25,000,000 for Mozambique and Southern Africa, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the amount provided shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request that includes 
designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                   International Assistance Programs

                   international security assistance

                   foreign military financing program

    The value of articles and services authorized for Southern Africa 
as of March 2, 2000, to be drawn down by the President under the 
authority of section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
as amended, shall not be counted against the ceiling limitation of that 
section.
    Under the authority of section 506(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, up to $37,600,000 is appropriated to the 
Department of Defense as reimbursement for drawdowns for southern 
Africa pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of such Act authorized as of March 
2, 2000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the amount provided shall be available only to 
the extent that an official budget request that includes designation of 
the entire amount as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses,'' $17,850,000 
to be made available until expended.

                       Office of Justice Programs

               state and local law enforcement assistance

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading for the 
State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, $7,850,000 are rescinded.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001''.


                                                       Calendar No. 530

106th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2522

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 9, 2000

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar