[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 544 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 28
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 544

                           [Report No. 106-8]

   Making emergency supplemental appropriations and rescissions for 
recovery from natural disasters and foreign assistance, for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.


Rule___________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 4, 1999

    Mr. Stevens, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill, which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making emergency supplemental appropriations and rescissions for 
recovery from natural disasters and foreign assistance, for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for 
other purposes, namely:

             TITLE I--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                               CHAPTER 1

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                        Office of the Secretary

 emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal farmworkers

    For emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal 
farmworkers under section 2281 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5177a), $20,000,000: Provided, That 
the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for $20,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$42,753,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: farm ownership loans, $550,000,000, of which $350,000,000 
shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $370,000,000, of which 
$185,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; and for 
emergency insured loans, $175,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to remain available until expended, 
as follows: farm ownership loans, $35,505,000, of which $5,565,000 
shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $28,804,000, of which 
$16,169,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; and for emergency 
insured loans, $41,300,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural 
disasters; and for additional administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $4,000,000: Provided, That the 
entire amounts are designated by the Congress as emergency requirements 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'' 
for expenses resulting from natural disasters, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$30,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted 
by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                      livestock indemnity program

    An amount of $3,000,000 is provided to implement a livestock 
indemnity program as established in Public Law 105-18: Provided, That 
the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for $3,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'' to repair damages to the waterways and watersheds 
resulting from natural disasters, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $100,000,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 
1949, to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund to 
meet needs resulting from natural disasters, as follows: $10,000,000 
for loans to section 502 borrowers, as determined by the Secretary; and 
$1,000,000 for section 504 housing repair loans.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including 
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to remain available until expended, 
$1,534,000, as follows: section 502 loans, $1,182,000; and section 504 
housing repair loans, $352,000: Provided, That the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$1,534,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted 
by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For an additional amount for grants for very low-income housing 
repair, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, to meet needs resulting from 
natural disasters, $1,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$1,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted 
by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                               CHAPTER 2

                  FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                  Agency for International Development

   central america and the caribbean emergency disaster recovery fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for necessary 
expenses to address the effects of hurricanes in Central America and 
the Caribbean and the earthquake in Colombia, $611,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the provisions of 
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
and, except for section 558, the provisions of title V of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Act, 1999 (as 
contained in Division A, section 101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)): 
Provided further, That such assistance may be made available 
notwithstanding such provisions of law regulating the making, 
performance, amendment, or modification of contracts as the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) may specify: Provided further, That at least five days prior to 
any use of the authority in the preceding proviso the Administrator of 
USAID shall report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of 
his intent to exercise such authority: Provided further, That up to 
$6,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this paragraph may be 
transferred to ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development'', to remain available until September 30, 2000, to be used 
for administrative costs of USAID in addressing the effects of those 
hurricanes, of which up to $1,000,000 may be used to contract directly 
for the personal services of individuals in the United States: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, not less 
than $2,000,000 should be made available to support the clearance of 
landmines and other unexploded ordnance in Nicaragua and Honduras: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
obligated and expended subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $611,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   international disaster assistance

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'' for necessary expenses 
for international disaster relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction 
assistance, pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $35,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                  other bilateral economic assistance

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out chapter 
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, in 
addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes: to provide 
assistance to Jordan, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2001: Provided, That the entire amount made available for fiscal 
year 1999 herein is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President to carry 
out section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, in addition to amounts 
otherwise available for such purposes, $50,000,000, to become available 
upon enactment of this Act and to remain available until September 30, 
2001, which shall be for grants only for Jordan: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be nonrepayable, notwithstanding 
section 23(b) and section 23(c) of the Arms Export Control Act: 
Provided further, That the entire amount made available for fiscal year 
1999 herein is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                           debt restructuring

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``Debt Restructuring'', $41,000,000, to remain available 
until expended and subject to the terms and conditions under the same 
heading in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1999, as included in Public Law 105-277, 
section 101(d): Provided, That up to $25,000,000 may be used for a 
contribution to the Central America Emergency Trust Fund, administered 
by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development: Provided 
further, That such funds shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    The value of articles, services, and military education and 
training authorized as of November 15, 1998, to be drawn down by the 
President under the authority of section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, shall not be counted against the 
ceiling limitation of that section.

                               CHAPTER 3

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $12,612,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damage due to rain, winds, 
ice, snow, and other acts of nature: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount 
provided shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request that includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For an additional amount for ``Holocaust Memorial Council'', 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Holocaust 
Museum to address security needs: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount 
provided shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request that includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                               CHAPTER 4

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                  disaster assistance for unmet needs

    For ``Disaster Assistance for Unmet Needs'', $313,600,000, which 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001, for use by the 
Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Director) only for 
disaster relief, buyout assistance, long-term recovery, and mitigation 
in communities affected by Presidentially-declared natural disasters 
designated during fiscal years 1998 and 1999, only to the extent those 
activities are not reimbursable by or for which funds are not made 
available by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (under its 
``Disaster Relief'' program), the Small Business Administration, or the 
Army Corps of Engineers: Provided, That in administering these funds 
the Director shall allocate these funds to States to be administered by 
each State in conjunction with its Federal Emergency Management Agency 
Disaster Relief program: Provided further, That each State shall 
provide not less than 25 percent in non-Federal public matching funds 
or its equivalent value (other than administrative costs) for any funds 
allocated to the State under this heading: Provided further, That the 
Director shall allocate these funds based on the unmet needs arising 
from a Presidentially-declared disaster as identified by the Director 
as those which have not or will not be addressed by other Federal 
disaster assistance programs and for which it is deemed appropriate to 
supplement the efforts and available resources of States, local 
governments and disaster relief organizations: Provided further, That 
the Director shall establish review groups within FEMA to review each 
request by a State of its unmet needs and certify as to the actual 
costs associated with the unmet needs as well as the commitment and 
ability of each state to provide its match requirement: Provided 
further, That the Director shall implement all mitigation and buyout 
efforts in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 404 of 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act: 
Provided further, That the Director shall publish a notice in the 
Federal Register governing the allocation and use of the funds under 
this heading, including provisions for ensuring the compliance of the 
states with the requirements of this program: Provided further, That 10 
days prior to distribution of funds, the Director shall submit a list 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, setting forth the 
proposed uses of funds and the most recent estimates of unmet needs: 
Provided further, That the Director shall submit quarterly reports to 
the Committees regarding the actual projects and needs for which funds 
have been provided under this heading: Provided further, That to the 
extent any funds under this heading are used in a manner inconsistent 
with the requirements of the program established under this heading and 
any rules issued pursuant thereto, the Director shall recapture an 
equivalent amount of funds from the State from any existing funds or 
future funds awarded to the State under this heading or any other 
program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS TITLE

    Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program. (a) Short Title.--This 
section may be cited as the ``Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Act of 
1999''.
    (b) Congressional Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the United States steel industry has been severely 
        harmed by a record surge of more than 40,000,000 tons of steel 
        imports into the United States in 1998, caused by the world 
        financial crisis;
            (2) this surge in imports resulted in the loss of more than 
        10,000 steel worker jobs in 1998, and was the imminent cause of 
        3 bankruptcies by medium-sized steel companies, Acme Steel, 
        Laclede Steel, and Geneva Steel;
            (3) the crisis also forced almost all United States steel 
        companies into reduced volume, lower prices, financial losses, 
        and an inability to obtain credit for continued operations and 
        reinvestment in facilities;
            (4) these steel bankruptcies, job losses, and financial 
        losses are also having serious negative effects on the tax base 
        of cities, counties, and States, and on the essential health, 
        education, and municipal services that these government 
        entities provide to their citizens; and
            (5) a strong steel industry is necessary to the adequate 
        defense preparedness of the United States in order to have 
        sufficient steel available to build the ships, tanks, planes, 
        and armaments necessary for the national defense.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``Board'' means the Loan Guarantee Board 
        established under subsection (e);
            (2) the term ``Program'' means the Emergency Steel 
        Guaranteed Loan Program established under subsection (d); and
            (3) the term ``qualified steel company'' means any company 
        that--
                    (A) is incorporated under the laws of any State;
                    (B) is engaged in the production and manufacture of 
                a product defined by the American Iron and Steel 
                Institute as a basic steel mill product, including 
                ingots, slab and billets, plates, flat-rolled steel, 
                sections and structural products, bars, rail type 
                products, pipe and tube, and wire rod; and
                    (C) has experienced layoffs, production losses, or 
                financial losses since the beginning of the steel 
                import crisis, after January 1, 1998.
    (d) Establishment of Emergency Steel Guaranteed Loan Program.--
There is established the Emergency Steel Guaranteed Loan Program, to be 
administered by the Board, the purpose of which is to provide loan 
guarantees to qualified steel companies in accordance with this 
section.
    (e) Loan Guarantee Board Membership.--There is established a Loan 
Guarantee Board, which shall be composed of--
            (1) the Secretary of Commerce, who shall serve as Chairman 
        of the Board;
            (2) the Secretary of Labor;
            (3) the Secretary of the Treasury;
            (4) the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
        Reserve System; and
            (5) the Comptroller General of the United States.
    (f) Loan Guarantee Program.--
            (1) Authority.--The Program may guarantee loans provided to 
        qualified steel companies by private banking and investment 
        institutions in accordance with the procedures, rules, and 
        regulations established by the Board.
            (2) Total guarantee limit.--The aggregate amount of loans 
        guaranteed and outstanding at any 1 time under this section may 
        not exceed $1,000,000,000.
            (3) Individual guarantee limit.--The aggregate amount of 
        loans guaranteed under this section with respect to a single 
        qualified steel company may not exceed $250,000,000.
            (4) Minimum guarantee amount.--No single loan in an amount 
        that is less than $25,000,000 may be guaranteed under this 
        section.
            (5) Timelines.--The Board shall approve or deny each 
        application for a guarantee under this section as soon as 
        possible after receipt of such application.
    (g) Requirements for Loan Guarantees.--A loan guarantee may be 
issued under this section upon application to the Board by a qualified 
steel company pursuant to an agreement to provide a loan to that 
qualified steel company by a private bank or investment company, if the 
Board determines that--
            (1) credit is not otherwise available to that company under 
        reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to meet its financing 
        needs, as reflected in the financial and business plans of that 
        company;
            (2) the prospective earning power of that company, together 
        with the character and value of the security pledged, furnish 
        reasonable assurance of repayment of the loan to be guaranteed 
        in accordance with its terms;
            (3) the loan to be guaranteed bears interest at a rate 
        determined by the Board to be reasonable, taking into account 
        the current average yield on outstanding obligations of the 
        United States with remaining periods of maturity comparable to 
        the maturity of such loan; and
            (4) the company has agreed to an audit by the Department of 
        the Treasury or the General Accounting Office, as determined by 
        the Board, prior to the issuance of the loan guarantee and 
        annually while any such guaranteed loan is outstanding.
    (h) Terms and Conditions of Loan Guarantees.--
            (1) Loan duration.--All loans guaranteed under this section 
        shall be payable in full not later than December 31, 2005, and 
        the terms and conditions of each such loan shall provide that 
        the loan may not be amended, or any provision thereof waived, 
        without the consent of the Board.
            (2) Loan security.--Any commitment to issue a loan 
        guarantee under this section shall contain such affirmative and 
        negative covenants and other protective provisions that the 
        Board determines are appropriate. The Board shall require 
        security for the loans to be guaranteed under this section at 
        the time at which the commitment is made.
            (3) Administrative fees.--A qualified steel company 
        receiving a guarantee under this section shall pay an 
        administrative fee in an amount equal to 0.5 percent of the 
        outstanding principal balance of the guaranteed loan to the 
        Department of the Treasury, to be used to offset the 
        administrative costs of the Program.
    (i) Reports to Congress.--The Secretary of Commerce shall submit to 
Congress annually, a full report of the activities of the Board under 
this section during fiscal years 1999 and 2000, and annually 
thereafter, during such period as any loan guaranteed under this 
section is outstanding.
    (j) Salaries and Administrative Expenses.--For necessary expenses 
to administer the Program, $5,000,000 is appropriated to the Department 
of Commerce, to remain available until expended, which may be 
transferred to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Trade 
Development of the International Trade Administration.
    (k) Termination of Guarantee Authority.--The authority of the Board 
to make commitments to guarantee any loan under this section shall 
terminate on December 31, 2001.
    (l) Regulatory Action.--The Board shall issue such final 
procedures, rules, and regulations as may be necessary to carry out 
this section not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (m) Emergency Designation.--The entire amount made available to 
carry out this section--
            (1) is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
        pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
        Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)); 
        and
            (2) shall be available only to the extent that an official 
        budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
        of the request as an emergency requirement (as defined in the 
        Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985) is 
        transmitted by the President to Congress.

                 TITLE II--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                               CHAPTER 1

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     enforcement and border affairs

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, Enforcement 
and Border Affairs'' to support increased detention requirements for 
criminal and illegal aliens, $80,000,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2000.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For the necessary expenses of additional research, management, and 
enforcement activities in the Northeast Multispecies fishery, and for 
the acquisition of shoreline data for nautical charts, $3,880,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses,'' $921,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                               CHAPTER 2

                    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$2,900,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$7,300,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $1,000,000.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$50,000,000.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$16,000,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $8,000,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $21,000,000, of which $20,000,000 is available only for the 
CINC initiative fund.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $20,000,000.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid'', $37,500,000.

                  New Horizons Exercise Transfer Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For emergency expenses incurred by United States military forces to 
participate in the New Horizons Exercise programs to undertake relief, 
rehabilitation, and restoration operations and training activities in 
response to disasters within the United States Southern Command area of 
responsibility; $46,000,000, to remain available for transfer until 
September 30, 1999: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may 
transfer these funds to operation and maintenance accounts: Provided 
further, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other 
transfer authority contained in Public Law 105-262.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 201. Of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-
262) for ``Operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', up to $8,000,000 
may be made available for the award of a grant to a consortium of non-
profit, higher education institutions for the purpose of creating a 
computer network among such institutions to enhance teaching and 
learning opportunities in science, technology and communications.
    Sec. 202. (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4344(b)(3) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``five 
persons'' and inserting ``10 persons''.
    (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6957(b)(3) of such title 
is amended by striking ``five persons'' and inserting ``10 persons''.
    (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9344(b)(3) of such 
title is amended by striking ``five persons'' and inserting ``10 
persons''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to students from a foreign country entering the 
United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, or the 
United States Air Force Academy on or after May 1, 1999.

                               CHAPTER 3

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                          (transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$1,136,000, to remain available until expended for suppression of 
western spruce budworm: Provided, That such funds shall be derived by 
transfer of funds provided in previous appropriations acts under the 
heading ``Forest Service, Wildland Fire Management''.

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

    Of the funds provided under this heading in prior Appropriations 
Acts for the Automated Land and Mineral Record System, $1,000,000 shall 
be available until expended to meet increased workload requirements 
stemming from the anticipated higher volume of Applications for Permits 
to Drill in the Powder River Basin: Provided, That unless there is an 
agreement in place between the coal mining operator and the gas 
producer, the funds made available herein shall not be used to approve 
Applications for Permits to Drill for well sites that are located 
within an area covered by: (1) an existing coal lease, or (2) an 
existing coal mining permit, or (3) an existing Lease by Application 
for a coal mining lease, or (4) a future Lease by Application for an 
area adjacent to and within one mile of an area covered by (1), (2), or 
(3) above. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed or operate as a 
restriction on current resources appropriated to the Department of the 
Interior.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Trust Programs'', 
$6,800,000, to remain available until expended for activities pursuant 
to the Trust Management Improvement Project High Level Implementation 
Plan.

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        wildland fire management

    Of the funds made available under this heading for fire operations 
in previous Acts of Appropriation (exclusive of amounts for hazardous 
fuels reduction), $100,000,000 shall be transferred to the Knutson-
Vandenberg fund established pursuant to Section 3 of Public Law 71-319 
(16 U.S.C. 576 et. seq.) within 10 days of passage of this Act.

                               CHAPTER 4

                             RELATED AGENCY

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For an additional amount for the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting, to remain available until expended, $18,000,000: 
Provided, That such funds be made available to National Public Radio, 
as the designated manager of the Public Radio Satellite System, for 
acquisition of satellite capacity.

                               CHAPTER 5

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'' to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of 
Hurricane Georges, $11,300,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 2003.

                               CHAPTER 6

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                      office of inspector general

    Under this heading in Public Law 105-276, add the words, ``to 
remain available until September 30, 2000,'' after ``$81,910,000,''.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2001. The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in Division A, section 101(e) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended under the heading ``Forest 
Service, Reconstruction and Construction'' by inserting before the 
final period the following: ``: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, funds appropriated for Forest Service 
construction of a new forestry research facility at Auburn University, 
Auburn, Alabama, shall be available for a direct payment to Auburn 
University for this purpose, but no more than $4,000,000 shall be 
available for such payment prior to October 1, 1999: Provided further, 
That if within the life of the facility the USDA Forest Service needs 
additional space for collaborative laboratory activities on the Auburn 
University campus, Auburn University shall provide such laboratory 
space within the new facility constructed with these funds, free of any 
charge for rent''.
    Sec. 2002. None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to issue and finalize 
the rule to revise 43 C.F.R. Part 3809, published on February 9, 1999 
at 64 Fed. Reg. 6421 or the Draft Environmental Impact Statement on 
Surface Management Regulations for Locatable Mineral Operations, 
published in February, 1999, unless the Secretary has provided a period 
of not less than 120 days for accepting public comment on the proposed 
rule after the report of the National Academy of Sciences' Committee on 
Hardrock Mining on Federal Lands, authorized and required by the 
Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999 (as contained in Division A, section 101(e) of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277)) is submitted to the appropriate federal agencies, 
the Congress, and the Governors of the affected states in accordance 
with the requirements of that Act.
    Sec. 2003. Civil Liberties Public Education Fund.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law and in addition to any funds appropriated 
for this purpose, the Attorney General may transfer from any funds 
available to the Department of Justice not more than $4,300,000 to the 
Fund established under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (50 U.S.C. App. 
1989b et seq.) for the purpose of paying restitution to individuals (1) 
who are eligible for restitution under such Act and have filed timely 
claims for the restitution, or (2) who are found eligible under the 
settlement agreement in the case of Carmen Mochizuki et al. vs. United 
States (Case No. 97-294C, United States Court of Federal Claims) and 
filed timely claims covered by the agreement.
    Sec. 2004. Division A, Section 101(a), Title XI, Section 1122(c) is 
amended by inserting after ``basis'' ``: Provided, That no 
administrative costs shall be charged against this program which would 
have been incurred otherwise''.
    Sec. 2005. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be used 
to issue a notice of final rulemaking with respect to the valuation of 
crude oil for royalty purposes, including a rulemaking derived from 
proposed rules published in 63 Federal Register 6113 (1998), 62 Federal 
Register 36030, and 62 Federal Register 3742 (1997) until October 1, 
1999, or until there is a negotiated agreement on the rule.
    Sec. 2006. Of the $2,200,000 appropriated in Public Law 105-276 in 
accordance with H.R. Conference Report No. 105-769 to meet sewer 
infrastructure needs associated with the 2002 Winter Olympic Games 
shall be awarded to Wasatch County, UT, for both water and sewer.
    Sec. 2007. For the remainder of fiscal year 1999, no funds may be 
used by the Department of the Interior to implement Secretarial Order 
3208, issued January 5, 1999, regarding the ``Reorganization of the 
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians''. Fiscal year 1999 
funds appropriated for purposes of reforming trust funds management 
practices shall continue to be administered as if the Order had not 
been issued.
    Sec. 2008. Extension of Airport Improvement Program. (a) 
Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 48103 of title 49, United 
States Code, as amended by section 110(b)(1) of title I of division C 
of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended by striking 
``$1,205,000,000'' and all that follows through ``October 1, 1998''and 
inserting ``$1,607,000,000 for the 8-month period beginning October 1, 
1998.''.
    (b) Obligational Authority.--Section 47104(c) of title 49, United 
States Code, as amended by section 110(b)(2) of title I of division C 
of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended by striking ``March 31, 
1999'' and inserting ``May 31, 1999''.
    (c) Liquidation of Contract Authorization.--The Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, as 
enacted in section 101(g) of Public Law 105-277, is amended as follows: 
Under the heading ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports, (Liquidation of 
Contract Authorization), (Airport and Airway Trust Fund)'', delete the 
last proviso, and insert the following in lieu thereof: ``: Provided 
further, That not more than $1,300,000,000 of funds limited under this 
heading may be obligated before the enactment of a bill extending 
contract authorization for the Grants-in-Aid for airports program 
beyond May 31, 1999.''.
    Sec. 2009. (a) Section (a) of section 149, Division C of Pubic Law 
105-277 is amended by striking ``April 1, 1999'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``September 30, 1999''.
    (b) Section (b) of section 149, Division C of Public Law 105-277 is 
amended by striking ``April 1, 1999'' each time it appears and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1999''.
    Sec. 2010. (a) Section 339(b)(3) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1989(b)(3) is amended--
            (1) by striking the comma and the remainder of paragraph 
        (3) following the comma; and
            (2) by inserting a period after ``(1)''.
    (b) Section 353(c)(3)(C) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2001(c)(3)(C)) is amended by striking ``100 
percent'' and inserting ``110 percent''.
    Sec. 2011. Prohibition on Treating Any Funds Recovered From Tobacco 
Companies as an Overpayment for Purposes of Medicaid. (a) Amendment to 
Social Security Act.--Section 1903(d)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b(d)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B)(i) Subparagraph (A) and paragraph (2)(B) shall not 
        apply to any amount recovered or paid to a State as part of the 
        comprehensive settlement of November 1998 between manufacturers 
        of tobacco products, as defined in section 5702(d) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and State Attorneys General, or 
        as part of any individual State settlement or judgment reached 
        in litigation initiated or pursued by a State against one or 
        more such manufacturers.
            ``(ii) Except as provided in subsection (i)(19), a State 
        may use amounts recovered or paid to the State as part of a 
        comprehensive or individual settlement, or a judgment, 
        described in clause (i) for any expenditures determined 
        appropriate by the State.''.
    (b) Prohibition on Payment for Administrative Expenses Incurred in 
Pursuing Tobacco Litigation.--Section 1903(i) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (18), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; or''; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (18) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(19) with respect to any amount expended on 
        administrative costs to initiate or pursue litigation described 
        in subsection (d)(3)(B).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply to amounts paid to a State prior to, on, or after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

                   TITLE III--RESCISSIONS AND OFFSETS

                               CHAPTER 1

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                           food stamp program

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Division A, 
Section 101(a), Title IV of Public Law 105-277, $285,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 2

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                      Office of Inspector General

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$5,000,000 are rescinded.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     enforcement and border affairs

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, excluding 
funds appropriated for equipment and facilities, $40,000,000 are 
rescinded.

  citizenship and benefits, immigration support and program direction

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, excluding 
funds appropriated for equipment and facilities, $25,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research and facilities

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$2,000,000 are rescinded.

               procurement, acquisition, and construction

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$2,000,000 are rescinded.

                DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

              International Organizations and Conferences

              contributions to international organizations

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, excluding 
funds appropriated for arrearages, $22,000,000 are rescinded.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, excluding 
funds appropriated for arrearages, $21,000,000 are rescinded.

                 international broadcasting operations

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$1,000,000 are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 3

                    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds provided in Public Law 105-262, the following funds 
are hereby rescinded as of the date of enactment of this Act from the 
following account: Under the heading, ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'', $209,700,000.

                               CHAPTER 4

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                       other bilateral assistance

                         economic support fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for Haiti under this heading in Public 
Law 105-118 and in the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), $10,000,000 are 
rescinded.

          assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for Bosnia and Herzegovina under this 
heading in Public Law 105-118 and in the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), 
$10,000,000 are rescinded.

  assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for Russia under this heading in Public 
Law 103-306, Public Law 105-118 and in the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), 
$10,000,000 are rescinded.

                    MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                  international financial institutions

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

                      global environment facility

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277), $60,000,000 are rescinded.

                international organizations and programs

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277), $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 5

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated under this heading in previous 
appropriations acts, $6,800,000 are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 6

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    Under this heading in section 101(f) of Public Law 105-277, delete 
``$3,132,076,000'' and insert ``$3,116,076,000''; and delete 
``$180,933,000'' and insert ``$164,933,000''.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

                temporary assistance for needy families

                               (deferral)

    Of the funds made available for grants to States for Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families under section 403(a)(1) of the Social 
Security Act, $350,000,000 shall not become available for obligation 
until October 1, 2001, in amounts bearing the same proportion to 
$350,000,000 as such unobligated balance for such State bears to the 
sum of such unobligated balances for all States.

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

            Education Research, Statistics, and Improvement

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in section 101(f) of 
Public Law 105-277, $8,000,000 are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 7

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

             Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-
237, $11,300,000 are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 8

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                   community development block grants

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading in the 
1998 Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions Act (Public Law 105-
174), $63,600,000 are rescinded.
    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading in 
Division B, of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), $250,000,000 are rescinded.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                    Environmental Protection Agency

                         science and technology

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available in Public Law 105-277, $10,000,000 for 
research associated with the Climate Change Technology Initiative are 
rescinded.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS TITLE

    Sec. 3001. Division B, Title V, Chapter 1 of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277) is repealed.
    Sec. 3002. Of the funds appropriated with an emergency designation 
in Division B of Public Law 105-277, other than those appropriated to 
the Department of Defense--Military, $343,000,000 are rescinded: 
Provided, That these reductions shall be applied proportionally to each 
appropriation account and budget activity being reduced by this 
section: Provided further, That within 30 days of enactment of this 
Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations a listing of the amounts by account 
of the reductions made pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 3003. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
for fiscal year 1999 for the non-defense discretionary category, 
$100,000,000 are rescinded as a result of revised economic assumptions 
from inflation adjusted accounts: Provided, That within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a listing of 
the amounts by account of the reductions made pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 3004. GAO and Inspector General Audit.--The Inspector General 
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall conduct an audit of the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development to assess the extent the Department 
has been in compliance with the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Reform Act of 1989 over the last two years. The Inspector 
General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall issue a preliminary 
report to the Congress on this assessment within 6 months and a final 
report within 12 months.

                    TITLE IV--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

    Sec. 4001. The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in Division A, section 101(a) of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) 
is amended:
            (a) in Title III, under the heading ``Rural Community 
        Advancement Program (Including Transfer of Funds)'', by 
        inserting ``1926d,'' after ``1926c,''; by inserting ``, 
        306(a)(2), and 306D'' after ``381E(d)(2)'' the first time it 
        appears in the paragraph; and by striking ``, as provided in 7 
        U.S.C. 1926(a) and 7 U.S.C. 1926C'',
            (b) in Title VII, in section 718 by striking ``this Act'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``annual appropriations Acts'',
            (c) in Title VII, in section 747 by striking ``302'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``203'', and
            (d) in Title VII, in section 763(b)(3) by striking 
        ``section 402(d) of Public Law 94-265'' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof ``section 116(a) of Public Law 104-297''.
    Sec. 4002. The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in Division A, section 
101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended:
            (a) in Title II under the heading ``Burma'' by striking 
        `headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof `headings ``Child Survival and Disease Programs Fund'', 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', and',
            (b) in Title V in section 587 by striking ``199-339'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``99-399'',
            (c) in Title V in subsection 594(a) by striking 
        ``subparagraph (C)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``subsection 
        (c)'',
            (d) in Title V in subsection 594(b) by striking 
        ``subparagraph (a)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``subsection 
        (a)'', and
            (e) in Title V in subsection 594(c) by striking ``521 of 
        the annual appropriations Act for Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``520 of this Act''.
    Sec. 4003. Subsection 1706(b) of title XVII of the International 
Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2), as added by section 
614 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1999, is amended by striking ``June 30'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30''.
    Sec. 4004. The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in Division A, section 101(e) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended:
            (a) in the last proviso under the heading ``United States 
        Fish and Wildlife Service, Administrative Provisions'' by 
        striking ``section 104(c)(50)(B) of the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1361-1407)'' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof ``section 104(c)(5)(B) of the Marine Mammal Protection 
        Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361-1407)''.
            (b) under the heading ``Bureau of Indian Affairs, Operation 
        of Indian Programs'', by striking ``$94,010,000'' and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``$94,046,000'', by striking ``$114,871,000'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``$114,891,000'', by striking 
        ``$387,365,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``$389,307,000'', and by striking ``$52,889,000'' and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``$53,039,000''.
            (c) in section 354(a) by striking ``16 U.S.C. 544(a)(2))'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``16 U.S.C. 544b(a)(2))''.
            (d) The amendments made by subsections (a), (b), and (c) of 
        this section shall take effect as if included in Public Law 
        105-277 on the date of its enactment.
    Sec. 4005. The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained 
in Division A, section 101(f) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended:
            (a) in Title I, under the heading ``Federal Unemployment 
        Benefits and Allowances'', by striking ``during the current 
        fiscal year'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``from October 1, 
        1998, through September 30, 1999'';
            (b) in Title II under the heading ``Office of the 
        Secretary, General Departmental Management'' by striking 
        ``$180,051,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``$188,051,000'';
            (c) in Title II under the heading ``Children and Families 
        Services Programs, (Including Rescissions)'' by striking 
        ``notwithstanding section 640(a)(6), of the funds made 
        available for the Head Start Act, $337,500,000 shall be set 
        aside for the Head Start Program for Families with Infants and 
        Toddlers (Early Head Start): Provided further, That'';
            (d) in Title II under the heading ``Office of the 
        Secretary, General Departmental Management'' by inserting after 
        the first proviso the following: ``Provided further, That of 
        the funds made available under this heading for carrying out 
        title XX of the Public Health Service Act, $10,831,000 shall be 
        for activities specified under section 2003(b)(2), of which 
        $9,131,000 shall be for prevention service demonstration grants 
        under section 510(b)(2) of title V of the Social Security Act, 
        as amended, without application of the limitation of section 
        2010(c) of said title XX:'';
            (e) in Title III under the heading ``Special Education'' by 
        inserting before the period at the end of the paragraph the 
        following: ``: Provided further, That $1,500,000 shall be for 
        the recipient of funds provided by Public Law 105-78 under 
        section 687(b)(2)(G) of the Act to provide information on 
        diagnosis, intervention, and teaching strategies for children 
        with disabilities'';
            (f) in Title II under the heading ``Public Health and 
        Social Services Emergency Fund'' by striking ``$322,000'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``$180,000'';
            (g) in Title III under the heading ``Education Reform'' by 
        striking ``$491,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``$459,500,000'';
            (h) in Title III under the heading ``Vocational and Adult 
        Education'' by striking ``$6,000,000'' the first time that it 
        appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``$14,000,000'', and by 
        inserting before the period at the end of the paragraph the 
        following: ``: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
        available for the Perkins Act, $4,100,000 shall be for tribally 
        controlled postsecondary vocational institutions under section 
        117'';
            (i) in Title III under the heading ``Higher Education'' by 
        inserting after the first proviso the following: ``Provided 
        further, That funds available for part A, subpart 2 of title 
        VII of the Higher Education Act shall be available to fund 
        awards for academic year 1999-2000 for fellowships under part 
        A, subpart 1 of title VII of said Act, under the terms and 
        conditions of part A, subpart 1:'';
            (j) in Title III under the heading ``Education Research, 
        Statistics, and Improvement'' by inserting after the third 
        proviso the following: ``Provided further, That of the funds 
        appropriated under section 10601 of title X of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, $1,000,000 
        shall be used to conduct a violence prevention demonstration 
        program: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
        section 10601 of title X of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965, as amended, $50,000 shall be awarded to 
        the Center for Educational Technologies to conduct a 
        feasibility study and initial planning and design of an 
        effective CD ROM product that would complement the book, We the 
        People: The Citizen and the Constitution:'';
            (k) in Title III under the heading ``Reading Excellence'' 
        by inserting before the period at the end of the paragraph the 
        following: ``: Provided, That up to one percent of the amount 
        appropriated shall be available October 1, 1998 for peer review 
        of applications'';
            (l) in Title V in section 510(3) by inserting after ``Act'' 
        the following: ``or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and 
        Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Acts''; and
            (m)(1) in Title VIII in section 405 by striking subsection 
        (e) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
    ``(e) Other References to Title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act.--The table of contents of the Stewart B. 
McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.) is amended--
            ``(1) by striking the items relating to title VII of such 
        Act, except the item relating to the title heading and the 
        items relating to subtitles B and C of such title; and
            ``(2) by striking the item relating to the title heading 
        for title VII and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

                 ``TITLE VII--EDUCATION AND TRAINING''.

            (2) The amendments made by subsection (m)(1) of this 
        section shall take effect as if included in Public Law 105-277 
        on the date of its enactment.
    Sec. 4006. The last sentence of section 5595(b) of title 5, United 
States Code (as added by section 309(a)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1999, Public Law 105-275) is amended by striking 
``(a)(1)(G)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``(a)(1)(C)''.
    Sec. 4007. Division B, Title II, Chapter 5 of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277) is amended under the heading ``Capitol Police 
Board, Security Enhancements'' by inserting before the period at the 
end of the paragraph ``: Provided further, That for purposes of 
carrying out the plan or plans described under this heading and 
consistent with the approval of such plan or plans pursuant to this 
heading, the Capitol Police Board shall transfer the portion of the 
funds made available under this heading which are to be used for 
personnel and overtime increases for the United States Capitol Police 
to the heading ``Capitol Police Board, Capitol Police, Salaries'' under 
the Act making appropriations for the legislative branch for the fiscal 
year involved, and shall allocate such portion between the Sergeant at 
Arms of the House of Representatives and the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate in such amounts as may be approved by the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate''.
    Sec. 4008. Division B, Title 1, Chapter 3 of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277) is amended under the heading ``Family Housing, 
Navy and Marine Corps'' by striking the word ``Hurricane'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``Hurricanes Georges and''.
    Sec. 4009. The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in Division A, section 101(g) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended in Title I under the heading 
``Capital Investment Grants (Including Transfer of Funds)'' within the 
project description of project number 127, by inserting the words ``and 
bus facilities'' after the word ``replacements'', and within the 
project description of project number 261 by striking the words 
``Multimodal Center'' and inserting ``buses and bus related 
facilities''.
    Sec. 4010. The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in Division A, section 101(g) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended in Title I under the heading 
``Federal-Aid Highways (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust 
Fund)'' by striking ``not more than $38,000,000 shall be available for 
the implementation and execution of the Ferry Boat and Ferry Terminal 
Facility Program'', and inserting in lieu thereof, ``not more than 
$59,290,000 shall be available for the implementation and execution of 
the Ferry Boat and Ferry Terminal Facility Program''.
    Sec. 4011. (a) American Fisheries Act.--The American Fisheries Act 
(title II of division C of Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in section 202(b) by inserting a comma after ``United 
        States Code'';
            (2) in section 207(d)(1)(A) by striking ``Fishery 
        Conservation and Management'';
            (3) in section 208(b)(1) by striking ``615085'' and 
        inserting ``633219'';
            (4) in section 213(c)(1) by striking ``title'' and 
        inserting ``subtitle''; and
            (5) in section 213(c)(2) by striking ``title'' and 
        inserting ``subtitle''.
    (b) Title 46.--Section 12122(c) of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting a comma after ``statement or representations''.
    Sec. 4012. Section 113 of the Department of Justice Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (section 101(b) of division A of Public Law 105-277) is 
amended by striking ``section 102(2) of the Federally Recognized Indian 
Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a(2))'' and inserting ``section 
4(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
U.S.C. 450b(b))''.
    Sec. 4013. Denali Commission.--The Denali Commission Act of 1998 
(title III of division C of Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in section 303(b)(1)(D) by striking in two instances 
        ``Alaska Federation or Natives'' and inserting ``Alaska 
        Federation of Natives'';
            (2) in section 303(c) by striking ``Members'' and inserting 
        ``The Federal Cochairperson shall serve for a term of four 
        years and may be reappointed. All other members'';
            (3) in section 306(a) by inserting after the first sentence 
        the following: ``The Federal Cochairperson shall be compensated 
        at the annual rate prescribed for level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.'';
            (4) in section 306(c)(2) by striking ``Chairman'' and 
        inserting ``Federal Cochairperson'';
            (5) by inserting at the end of section 306 the following 
        new subsections:
    ``(g) Administrative Expenses and Records.--The Commission is 
hereby prohibited from using more than 5 percent of the amounts 
appropriated under the authority of this Act or transferred pursuant to 
section 329 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(g) of division A of this Act) for 
administrative expenses. The Commission and its grantees shall maintain 
accurate and complete records which shall be available for audit and 
examination by the Comptroller General of his or her designee.
    ``(h) Inspector General.--Section 8G(a)(2) of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3, section 8G(a)(2)) is amended by inserting 
`the Denali Commission,' after `the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting,'.''; and
            (6) in section 307(b) by inserting immediately before ``The 
        Commission'' the following: ``Funds transferred to the 
        Commission pursuant to section 329 of the Department of 
        Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 
        (section 101(g) of division A of this Act) shall be available 
        without further appropriation and until expended.''.
    Sec. 4014. Section 3347(b) of title 5, United States Code, as added 
by the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, is amended by striking 
``provision to which subsection (a)(2) applies'' and inserting 
``provision to which subsection (a)(1) applies''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1999''.


                                                        Calendar No. 28

106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 544

                           [Report No. 106-8]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   Making emergency supplemental appropriations and rescissions for 
recovery from natural disasters and foreign assistance, for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 4, 1999

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar