[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 73 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]






104th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 73

                           [Report No. 104-6]

     Authorizing biennial expenditures by committees of the Senate.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

             January 25 (legislative day, January 10), 1995

 Mr. Stevens, from the Committee on Rules and Administration, reported 
  the following original resolution; which was placed on the calendar

            February 13 (legislative day, January 30), 1995

                        Considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
     Authorizing biennial expenditures by committees of the Senate.

    Resolved, That this resolution may be cited as the ``Omnibus 
Committee Funding Resolution for 1995 and 1996''.

                        Aggregate Authorization

    Sec. 2. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, and under the appropriate authorizing 
resolutions of the Senate, there is authorized for the period March 1, 
1995, through September 30, 1996, in the aggregate of $49,394,804 and 
for the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, in the 
aggregate of $50,521,131 in accordance with the provisions of this 
resolution, for all Standing Committees of the Senate, for the 
Committee on Indian Affairs, the Special Committee on Aging, and the 
Select Committee on Intelligence.
    (b) Each committee referred to in subsection (a) shall report its 
findings, together with such recommendations for legislation as it 
deems advisable, to the Senate at the earliest practicable date, but 
not later than February 29, 1996, and February 28, 1997, respectively.
    (c) Any expenses of a committee under this resolution shall be paid 
from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by the 
chairman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be required--
            (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees of the 
        committee who are paid at an annual rate;
            (2) for the payment of telecommunications expenses provided 
        by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United 
        States Senate, Department of Telecommunications;
            (3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased 
        through the Keeper of Stationery, United States Senate;
            (4) for payments to the Postmaster, United States Senate;
            (5) for the payment of metered charges on copying equipment 
        provided by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, 
        United States Senate; or
            (6) for the payment of Senate Recording and Photographic 
        Services.
    (d) There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for agency 
contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committees from March 1, 1995, through September 30, 1996, and March 1, 
1996, through February 28, 1997, to be paid from the appropriations 
account for ``Expenses of Inquiries and Investigations'' of the Senate.

           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

    Sec. 3. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized from March 1, 
1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,708,179, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,746,459, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $4,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                      Committee on Appropriations

    Sec. 4. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraph 1 
of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee on 
Appropriations is authorized from March 1, 1995, through February 28, 
1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$4,823,586, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $175,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$4,931,401, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $175,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                      Committee on Armed Services

    Sec. 5. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee 
on Armed Services is authorized from March 1, 1995, through February 
28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,641,704.
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,702,669.

            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

    Sec. 6. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized from March 1, 
1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,788,802, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $150,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $850, may be expended for the training of 
        the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,851,936, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $850, may be expended for the procurement 
        of the services of individual consultants, or organizations 
        thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative 
        Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $850, may be expended for the training of 
        the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                        Committee on the Budget

    Sec. 7. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraph 1 
of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee on the 
Budget is authorized from March 1, 1995, through February 28, 1997, in 
its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$3,032,295, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$3,103,181, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $20,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

    Sec. 8. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized from March 1, 
1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$3,369,312, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $14,572, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $15,600, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$3,445,845, of which amount (1) not to exceed $14,572, may be expended 
for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to 
exceed $15,600, may be expended for the training of the professional 
staff of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) 
of such Act).

               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

    Sec. 9. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, reporting 
such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,579,566.
    (c) For the period of March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,636,292.

               Committee on Environment and Public Works

    Sec. 10. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized from March 
1, 1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,376,346, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $8,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,430,379, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $8,000, be expended for the procurement 
        of the services of individual consultants, or organizations 
        thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative 
        Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                          Committee on Finance

    Sec. 11. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Finance is authorized from March 1, 1995, through 
February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,960,173, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$3,026,449, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                     Committee on Foreign Relations

    Sec. 12. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,647,720, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $45,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,708,841, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $45,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                   Committee on Governmental Affairs

    Sec. 13. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Governmental Affairs is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$4,429,312, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,470, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$4,530,725, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $75,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $2,470, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (d)(1) The committee, or any duly authorized subcommittee thereof, 
is authorized to study or investigate--
            (A) the efficiency and economy of operations of all 
        branches of the Government including the possible existence of 
        fraud, misfeasance, malfeasance, collusion, mismanagement, 
        incompetence, corruption, or unethical practices, waste, 
        extravagance, conflicts of interest, and the improper 
        expenditure of Government funds in transactions, contracts, and 
        activities of the Government or of Government officials and 
        employees and any and all such improper practices between 
        Government personnel and corporations, individuals, companies, 
        or persons affiliated therewith, doing business with the 
        Government; and the compliance or noncompliance of such 
        corporations, companies, or individuals or other entities with 
        the rules, regulations, and laws governing the various 
        governmental agencies and its relationships with the public;
            (B) the extent to which criminal or other improper 
        practices or activities are, or have been, engaged in the field 
        of labor-management relations or in groups or organizations of 
        employees or employers, to the detriment of interests of the 
        public, employers, or employees, and to determine whether any 
        changes are required in the laws of the United States in order 
        to protect such interests against the occurrence of such 
        practices or activities;
            (C) organized criminal activities which may operate in or 
        otherwise utilize the facilities of interstate or international 
        commerce in furtherance of any transactions and the manner and 
        extent to which, and the identity of the persons, firms, or 
        corporations, or other entities by whom such utilization is 
        being made, and further, to study and investigate the manner in 
        which and the extent to which persons engaged in organized 
        criminal activity have infiltrated lawful business enterprise, 
        and to study the adequacy of Federal laws to prevent the 
        operations of organized crime in interstate or international 
        commerce; and to determine whether any changes are required in 
        the laws of the United States in order to protect the public 
        against such practices or activities;
            (D) all other aspects of crime and lawlessness within the 
        United States which have an impact upon or affect the national 
        health, welfare, and safety; including but not limited to 
        investment fraud schemes, commodity and security fraud, 
        computer fraud, and the use of offshore banking and corporate 
        facilities to carry out criminal objectives;
            (E) the efficiency and economy of operations of all 
        branches and functions of the Government with particular 
        reference to--
                    (i) the effectiveness of present national security 
                methods, staffing, and processes as tested against the 
                requirements imposed by the rapidly mounting complexity 
                of national security problems;
                    (ii) the capacity of present national security 
                staffing, methods, and processes to make full use of 
                the Nation's resources of knowledge and talents;
                    (iii) the adequacy of present intergovernmental 
                relations between the United States and international 
                organizations principally concerned with national 
                security of which the United States is a member; and
                    (iv) legislative and other proposals to improve 
                these methods, processes, and relationships;
            (F) the efficiency, economy, and effectiveness of all 
        agencies and departments of the Government involved in the 
        control and management of energy shortages including, but not 
        limited to, their performance with respect to--
                    (i) the collection and dissemination of accurate 
                statistics on fuel demand and supply;
                    (ii) the implementation of effective energy 
                conservation measures;
                    (iii) the pricing of energy in all forms;
                    (iv) coordination of energy programs with State and 
                local government;
                    (v) control of exports of scarce fuels;
                    (vi) the management of tax, import, pricing, and 
                other policies affecting energy supplies;
                    (vii) maintenance of the independent sector of the 
                petroleum industry as a strong competitive force;
                    (viii) the allocation of fuels in short supply by 
                public and private entities;
                    (ix) the management of energy supplies owned or 
                controlled by the Government;
                    (x) relations with other oil producing and 
                consuming countries;
                    (xi) the monitoring of compliance by governments, 
                corporations, or individuals with the laws and 
                regulations governing the allocation, conservation, or 
                pricing of energy supplies; and
                    (xii) research into the discovery and development 
                of alternative energy supplies; and
            (G) the efficiency and economy of all branches and 
        functions of Government with particular references to the 
        operations and management of Federal regulatory policies and 
        programs: Provided, That, in carrying out the duties herein set 
        forth, the inquiries of this committee or any subcommittee 
        thereof shall not be deemed limited to the records, functions, 
        and operations of any particular branch of the Government; but 
        may extend to the records and activities of any persons, 
        corporation, or other entity.
    (2) Nothing contained in this section shall affect or impair the 
exercise of any other standing committee of the Senate of any power, or 
the discharge by such committee of any duty, conferred or imposed upon 
it by the Standing Rules of the Senate or by the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended.
    (3) For the purposes of this section, the committee, or any duly 
authorized subcommittee thereof, or its chairman, or any other member 
of the committee or subcommittee designated by the chairman, from March 
1, 1995, through February 28, 1997, is authorized, in its, his, or 
their discretion--
            (A) to require by subpoena or otherwise the attendance of 
        witnesses and production of correspondence, books, papers, and 
        documents;
            (B) to hold hearings;
            (C) to sit and act at any time or place during the 
        sessions, recess, and adjournment periods of the Senate;
            (D) to administer oaths; and
            (E) to take testimony, either orally or by sworn statement, 
        or, in the case of staff members of the Committee and the 
        Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, by deposition in 
        accordance with the Committee Rules of Procedure.
    (4) All subpoenas and related legal processes of the committee and 
its subcommittee authorized under S. Res. 71 of the One Hundred Third 
Congress, second session, are authorized to continue.

                       Committee on the Judiciary

    Sec. 14. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on the Judiciary is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$4,260,450, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $40,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$4,359,828, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $40,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $1,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                 Committee on Labor and Human Resources

    Sec. 15. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Labor and Human Resources is authorized from March 1, 
1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$4,018,406, of which amount not to exceed $22,500, may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$4,111,256, of which amount not to exceed $22,500, may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).

                 Committee on Rules and Administration

    Sec. 16. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Rules and Administration is authorized from March 1, 
1995, through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,309,439, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $3,500, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,340,234, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $3,500, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                      Committee on Small Business

    Sec. 17. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Small Business is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,059,861, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,083,793, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $10,000, may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $5,000, may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of such Act).

                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

    Sec. 18. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,097,451, of which amount not to exceed $3,000, may be expended for 
the training of the professional staff of such committee (under 
procedures specified by section 202(j) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,122,714, of which amount not to exceed $3,000, may be expended for 
the training of the professional staff of such committee (under 
procedures specified by section 202(j) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).

                       Special Committee on Aging

    Sec. 19. (a) In carrying out the duties and functions imposed by 
section 104 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4, 1977, (95th Congress), 
and in exercising the authority conferred on it by such section, the 
Special Committee on Aging is authorized from March 1, 1995, through 
February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,108,255.
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,132,974.

                    Select Committee on Intelligence

    Sec. 20. (a) In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under S. Res. 400, agreed to May 19, 1976 (94th Congress), in 
accordance with its jurisdiction under section 3(a) of such resolution, 
including holding hearings, reporting such hearings, and making 
investigations as authorized by section 5 of such resolution, the 
Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized from March 1, 1995, 
through February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$2,064,860, of which amount not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$2,113,120, of which amount not to exceed $30,000, may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended).

                      Committee on Indian Affairs

    Sec. 21. (a). In carrying out the duties and functions imposed by 
section 105 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4, 1977 (95th Congress), 
and in exercising the authority conferred on it by such section, the 
Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized from March 1, 1995, through 
February 28, 1997, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimbursable, basis the 
        services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 1995, 
through September 30, 1996, under this section shall not exceed 
$1,119,088.
    (c) For the period March 1, 1996, through February 28, 1997, 
expenses of the committee under this section shall not exceed 
$1,143,036.

                            Special Reserves

    Sec. 22. (a) Of the funds authorized for the Senate committees 
listed in sections 3 through 21 by Senate Resolution 71, agreed to 
February 25, 1993, as amended (103d Congress), for the funding period 
ending on the last day of February 1995, any unexpended balances 
remaining shall be transferred to a special reserve which shall, on the 
basis of a special need and at the request of a Chairman and Ranking 
Member of any such committee, and with the approval of the Chairman and 
Ranking Member of the Committee on Rules and Administration, be 
available to any committee for the purposes provided in subsection (b). 
During March 1995, obligations incurred but not paid through February 
28, 1995, shall be paid from the unexpended balances before transfer to 
the special reserves and any obligations so paid shall be deducted from 
the unexpended balances transferred to the special reserves.
    (b) The reserves established in subsection (a) shall be available 
for the period commencing March 1, 1995, and ending with the close of 
September 30, 1995, for the purpose of (1) meeting any unpaid 
obligations incurred during the funding period ending on the last day 
of February 1995, and which were not deducted from the unexpended 
balances under subsection (a), and (2) meeting expenses incurred after 
such last day and prior to the close of September 30, 1995.
    Sec. 23. (a) It is the sense of the Senate that space assigned to 
the respective committees of the Senate covered by this resolution 
shall be reduced commensurate with the reductions in authorized staff 
funded herein. The Committee on Rules and Administration is expected to 
recover such space for the purpose of equalizing Senators offices to 
the extent possible, taking into consideration the population of the 
respective states according to the existing procedures and to 
consolidate the space for Senate committees in order to reduce the cost 
of support equipment, office furniture, and office accessories.